According to John 15:1-27 15 “I am the true vine, and my Father is the cultivator. 2 He takes away every branch in me not bearing fruit, and he cleans every one bearing fruit, so that it may bear more fruit. + 3 You are already clean because of the word that I have spoken to you. + 4 Remain in union with me, and I will remain in union with you. Just as the branch cannot bear fruit by itself unless it remains in the vine, neither can you unless you remain in union with me. + 5 I am the vine; you are the branches. Whoever remains in union with me and I in union with him, this one bears much fruit; + for apart from me you can do * nothing at all. 6 If anyone does not remain in union with me, he is thrown out like a branch and dries up. And men gather those branches and throw them into the fire, and they are burned. + 7 If you remain in union with me and my sayings remain in you, ask whatever you wish and it will take place for you. + 8 My Father is glorified in this, that you keep bearing much fruit and prove yourselves my disciples. + 9 Just as the Father has loved me, + so I have loved you; remain in my love. 10 If you observe my commandments, you will remain in my love, + just as I have observed the commandments of the Father and remain in his love. + 11 “These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy may be in you and your joy may be made full. + 12 This is my commandment, that you love one another just as I have loved you. + 13 No one has love greater than this, that someone should surrender his life in behalf of his friends. + 14 You are my friends if you do what I am commanding you. + 15 I no longer call you slaves, because a slave does not know what his master does. But I have called you friends, because I have made known to you all the things I have heard from my Father. 16 You did not choose me, but I chose you, and I appointed you to go and keep bearing fruit and that your fruit should remain, so that no matter what you ask the Father in my name, he may give it to you. + 17 “These things I command you, that you love one another. + 18 If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. + 19 If you were part of the world, the world would be fond of what is its own. Now because you are no part of the world, + but I have chosen you out of the world, for this reason the world hates you. + 20 Keep in mind the word I said to you: A slave is not greater than his master. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; + if they have observed my word, they will also observe yours. 21 But they will do all these things against you on account of my name, because they do not know the One who sent me. + 22 If I had not come and spoken to them, they would have no sin. + But now they have no excuse for their sin. + 23 Whoever hates me also hates my Father. + 24 If I had not done among them the works that no one else did, they would have no sin; + but now they have both seen me and hated me as well as my Father. 25 But this happened in order to fulfill the word written in their Law: ‘They hated me without cause.’ + 26 When the helper comes that I will send you from the Father, the spirit of the truth, + which comes from the Father, that one will bear witness about me; + 27 and you, in turn, are to bear witness, + because you have been with me from the beginning. Footnotes ^ Or “produce.” Study Notes I am the true vine: Jesus’ metaphor resembles word pictures found in the Hebrew Scriptures. In Isaiah’s prophecy, “the house of Israel” is called “the vineyard of Jehovah of armies.” ( Isa 5:1-7 ) Jehovah also referred to unfaithful Israel as “the degenerate shoots of a foreign vine” and as “a degenerate vine.” ( Jer 2:21; Ho 10:1, 2 ) But unlike that disloyal nation, Jesus is “the true vine,” and his Father, the cultivator. After likening his disciples to “branches” of the vine, he urged them to remain in union with him. Just as branches of a literal vine must remain attached to the trunk in order to remain alive and fruitful, the disciples need to remain in union with Jesus to be spiritually alive and productive. The illustration also shows that just as a cultivator expects a vine to produce fruit, Jehovah expects those in union with Christ to produce spiritual fruitage. This illustration emphasizes the unity that exists not only between Jesus’ true followers and Jesus but also between the disciples and Jesus’ Father.​— Joh 15:2-8 . cleans: Or “prunes.” The Greek word here rendered “cleans” is a verb form of the Greek word rendered “clean” at Joh 15:3 . life: Or “soul.” The meaning of the Greek word psy·kheʹ, traditionally rendered “soul,” has to be determined by the context. Here it refers to a person’s life.​—See Glossary, “ Soul .” I no longer call you slaves: The Greek term for “a slave,” douʹlos, is generally used with reference to individuals owned by fellow men. ( Mt 8:9; 10:24, 25; 13:27 ) It is also used figuratively to refer to devoted servants of God and of his Son, Jesus Christ, whether human ( Ac 2:18; 4:29; Ro 1:1; Ga 1:10 ) or angelic ( Re 19:10 , where the word synʹdou·los [fellow slave] appears). In another figurative usage, the term applies to people in slavery to sin ( Joh 8:34; Ro 6:16-20 ) or to corruption ( 2Pe 2:19 ). When Jesus sacrificed his perfect life, he used the value of that blood to buy the lives of all those who follow him. As a result, Christians do not belong to themselves but are “Christ’s slaves.” ( Eph 6:6; 1Co 6:19, 20; 7:23; Ga 3:13 ) Although Jesus called the apostles his friends, by redeeming them from sin, they became his slaves. At times, he used this expression to refer to his followers.​— Joh 15:20 . world: In this context, the Greek word koʹsmos refers to the world of mankind apart from God’s servants, the unrighteous human society alienated from God. John is the only Gospel writer to quote Jesus as saying that his followers are no part of the world or do not belong to the world. The same thought is expressed two more times in Jesus’ last prayer with his faithful apostles.​— Joh 17:14, 16 . on account of my name: In the Bible, the term “name” at times stands for the person who bears the name, his reputation, and all that he represents. (See study note on Mt 6:9 .) In the case of Jesus’ name, it also stands for the authority and position that his Father has given him. ( Mt 28:18; Php 2:9, 10; Heb 1:3, 4 ) Jesus here explains why people of the world would do things against his followers: because they do not know the One who sent him. Knowing God would help them to understand and acknowledge what Jesus’ name stands for. ( Ac 4:12 ) This would include Jesus’ position as God’s appointed Ruler, the King of kings, to whom all people should bow in submission in order to gain life.​— Joh 17:3; Re 19:11-16 ; compare Ps 2:7-12 . in their Law: Here referring to the entire Hebrew Scriptures. The quote that follows is taken from Ps 35:19; 69:4 . “Law” is used in the same sense at Joh 10:34; 12:34 . helper: See study note on Joh 14:16 . that one: The Greek demonstrative pronoun e·keiʹnos is in the masculine gender and refers to the helper, which is also in the masculine gender.​—See study notes on Joh 14:16; 16:13 . from the beginning: Or “from when I began,” that is, from when Jesus began his ministry. Media Vine The grapevine ( Vitis vinifera ) had been cultivated for thousands of years and was commonly seen throughout the area where Jesus lived. If wood was available, the workers made stakes or a trellis to support the vines. During the winter, cultivators pruned the preceding year’s growth from the vines. After shoots grew in the spring, workers pruned any new shoots lacking fruit. ( Joh 15:2 ) This helped the vine produce more fruit of better quality. Jesus likened his Father to a cultivator, himself to a vine, and his disciples to branches. Just as branches on a literal vine receive their support and nourishment from the trunk, Jesus’ disciples receive spiritual support and nourishment if they remain in union with him, “the true vine.”​— Joh 15:1, 5 . Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) John 15 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS