According to John 18:1-40 18 After he said these things, Jesus went out with his disciples across the Kidʹron Valley + to where there was a garden, and he and his disciples went into it. + 2 Now Judas, his betrayer, + also knew the place, because Jesus had often met there with his disciples. 3 So Judas brought the detachment of soldiers and officers of the chief priests and of the Pharisees and came there with torches and lamps and weapons. + 4 Then Jesus, knowing all the things that were going to happen to him, stepped forward and said to them: “Whom are you looking for?” 5 They answered him: “Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ.” + He said to them: “I am he.” Now Judas, his betrayer, was also standing with them. + 6 However, when Jesus said to them, “I am he,” they drew back and fell to the ground. + 7 So he asked them again: “Whom are you looking for?” They said: “Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ.” 8 Jesus answered: “I told you that I am he. So if you are looking for me, let these men go.” 9 This was to fulfill what he had said: “Of those whom you have given me, I have not lost a single one.” + 10 Then Simon Peter, who had a sword, drew it and struck the slave of the high priest, cutting off his right ear. + The name of the slave was Malchus. 11 Jesus, however, said to Peter: “Put the sword into its sheath. + Should I not drink the cup that the Father has given me?” + 12 Then the soldiers and the military commander and the officers of the Jews seized * Jesus and bound him. 13 They led him first to Anʹnas, for he was the father-in-law of Caʹia·phas, + who was high priest that year. + 14 Caʹia·phas was, in fact, the one who had advised the Jews that it was to their benefit for one man to die in behalf of the people. + 15 Now Simon Peter, as well as another disciple, was following Jesus. + That disciple was known to the high priest, and he went with Jesus into the courtyard of the high priest, 16 but Peter was standing outside at the door. * So the other disciple, who was known to the high priest, went out and spoke to the doorkeeper and brought Peter in. 17 The servant girl who was the doorkeeper then said to Peter: “You are not also one of this man’s disciples, are you?” He said: “I am not.” + 18 Now the slaves and the officers were standing around a charcoal fire they had made, because it was cold and they were warming themselves. Peter also was standing with them and warming himself. 19 So the chief priest questioned Jesus about his disciples and about his teaching. 20 Jesus answered him: “I have spoken to the world publicly. I always taught in a synagogue and in the temple, + where all the Jews come together, and I said nothing in secret. 21 Why do you question me? Question those who have heard what I told them. See! These know what I said.” 22 After he said these things, one of the officers who was standing by gave Jesus a slap in the face + and said: “Is that the way you answer the chief priest?” 23 Jesus answered him: “If I said something wrong, bear witness * about the wrong; but if what I said was right, why do you hit me?” 24 Then Anʹnas sent him away bound to Caʹia·phas the high priest. + 25 Now Simon Peter was standing there warming himself. Then they said to him: “You are not also one of his disciples, are you?” He denied it and said: “I am not.” + 26 One of the slaves of the high priest, who was a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off, + said: “I saw you in the garden with him, did I not?” 27 However, Peter denied it again, and immediately a rooster crowed. + 28 Then they led Jesus from Caʹia·phas to the governor’s residence. + It was now early in the morning. But they themselves did not enter into the governor’s residence, so that they would not get defiled + but could eat the Passover. 29 So Pilate came outside to them and said: “What accusation do you bring against this man?” 30 They answered him: “If this man were not a wrongdoer, * we would not have handed him over to you.” 31 So Pilate said to them: “Take him yourselves and judge him according to your law.” + The Jews said to him: “It is not lawful for us to kill anyone.” + 32 This was to fulfill the word that Jesus had spoken to indicate what sort of death he was about to die. + 33 So Pilate entered the governor’s residence again and called Jesus and said to him: “Are you the King of the Jews?” + 34 Jesus answered: “Are you asking this of your own originality, or did others tell you about me?” 35 Pilate replied: “I am not a Jew, am I? Your own nation and the chief priests handed you over to me. What did you do?” 36 Jesus answered: + “My Kingdom is no part of this world. + If my Kingdom were part of this world, my attendants would have fought that I should not be handed over to the Jews. + But as it is, my Kingdom is not from this source.” 37 So Pilate said to him: “Well, then, are you a king?” Jesus answered: “You yourself are saying that I am a king. + For this I have been born, and for this I have come into the world, that I should bear witness to the truth. + Everyone who is on the side of the truth listens to my voice.” + 38 Pilate said to him: “What is truth?” After saying this, he went out again to the Jews and said to them: “I find no fault in him. + 39 Moreover, you have a custom that I should release a man to you at the Passover. + So do you want me to release to you the King of the Jews?” 40 Again they shouted: “Not this man, but Bar·abʹbas!” Now Bar·abʹbas was a robber. + Footnotes ^ Or “arrested.” ^ Or “entrance.” ^ Or “testify.” ^ Or “criminal.” Study Notes the Kidron Valley: Or “the winter torrent of Kidron.” The Kidron Valley, mentioned only here in the Christian Greek Scriptures , separates Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives. It runs from N to S along the eastern side of the city. The Kidron Valley was usually waterless, even in winter, except in the case of an especially heavy rain. The Greek word kheiʹmar·ros, here rendered “valley,” literally means “a winter torrent,” that is, a stream of water that flows abundantly because of the heavy rains during the winter season. This Greek word is used more than 80 times in the Septuagint to render the Hebrew word naʹchal, the corresponding expression for “valley,” used when the Kidron Valley is mentioned in the Hebrew Scriptures. ( 2Sa 15:23; 1Ki 2:37 ) These Hebrew and Greek words for “valley” can both refer to a torrent or a stream. ( De 10:7; Job 6:15; Isa 66:12; Eze 47:5 ) More frequently, however, these words refer to the valley cut by a winter torrent and through which a stream runs during the winter rains. ( Nu 34:5; Jos 13:9; 17:9; 1Sa 17:40; 1Ki 15:13; 2Ch 33:14; Ne 2:15; Ca 6:11 ) Both words are often rendered “wadi.”​—See Glossary, “ Wadi .” the detachment of soldiers: The Greek term speiʹra used here indicates that Roman soldiers are referred to. Of the four Gospel writers, John is the only one to mention that Roman soldiers were present when Jesus was arrested.​— Joh 18:12 . struck the slave of the high priest: This incident is recorded by all four Gospel writers, and their accounts are complementary. ( Mt 26:51; Mr 14:47; Lu 22:50 ) Only Luke, “the beloved physician” ( Col 4:14 ), mentions that Jesus “touched the ear and healed him.” ( Lu 22:51 ) John is the only Gospel writer to mention that Simon Peter wielded the sword and that Malchus was the name of the slave whose ear was cut off. John was evidently the disciple “known to the high priest” as well as to his household ( Joh 18:15, 16 ), so it is natural that his Gospel would mention the injured man by name. John’s familiarity with the high priest’s household is further shown at Joh 18:26 , where John explains that the slave who accused Peter of being a disciple of Jesus was “a relative of the man whose ear Peter had cut off.” drink the cup: In the Bible, “cup” is often used figuratively of God’s will, or “assigned portion,” for a person. ( Ps 11:6; 16:5; 23:5 ) To “drink the cup” here means to submit to God’s will. In Jesus’ case, “the cup” involved suffering and death under the false charge of blasphemy, as well as his resurrection to immortal life in heaven.​—See study notes on Mt 20:22; 26:39 . military commander: The Greek term khi·liʹar·khos (chiliarch) literally means “ruler of a thousand,” that is, soldiers. It refers to a Roman military commander called a tribune. There were six tribunes in each Roman legion. The legion, however, was not divided into six different commands; rather, each tribune commanded the whole legion for one sixth of the time. Such a military commander had great authority, including the power to nominate and assign centurions . The Greek word could also refer to high-ranking military officers in general. A Roman military commander accompanied the soldiers who arrested Jesus. the Jews: Apparently referring to the Jewish authorities or religious leaders.​—See study note on Joh 7:1 . They led him first to Annas: Only John states specifically that Jesus was led to Annas, who had been appointed high priest about 6 or 7 C.E. by Quirinius, the Roman governor of Syria. Annas served until about 15 C.E. Even after he was deposed by the Romans and no longer held the official title of high priest, Annas seems to have continued to exercise great power and influence as high priest emeritus and the predominant voice of the Jewish hierarchy. Five of his sons held the office of high priest, and his son-in-law Caiaphas served as high priest from about 18 C.E. to about 36 C.E., which included that year, that is, 33 C.E., the memorable year in which Jesus was executed.​—See study note on Lu 3:2 . another disciple: Apparently referring to the apostle John. This would fit John’s characteristic style of not referring to himself by name in his Gospel . (See study notes on Joh 13:23; 19:26; 20:2; 21:7; 21:20 .) Furthermore, John and Peter are linked in the postresurrection account at Joh 20:2-8 . The Bible does not explain how John, a disciple from Galilee, might have become known to the high priest, but his familiarity with the household of the high priest enabled John to get past the doorkeeper into the courtyard and also to gain entrance for Peter.​— Joh 18:16 . charcoal: A black, brittle, porous form of carbon, usually the residue of partially burned wood. In ancient times, charcoal was made by covering a pile of wood with earth and burning it slowly for several days with only enough air to burn off the gases. This left behind a relatively pure form of carbon. It was a time-consuming process requiring careful supervision, but charcoal was a favored fuel when intense, sustained heat without smoke was desired. Charcoal in an open fire or in a brazier was used for warmth. ( Isa 47:14; Jer 36:22 ) Its even heat and the absence of flames and smoke made it ideal for cooking.​— Joh 21:9 . the chief priest: That is, Annas.​—See study notes on Joh 18:13; Ac 4:6 . to Caiaphas the high priest: See App. B12 for the possible location of Caiaphas’ house. a rooster crowed: See study note on Mr 14:72 . governor’s residence: See study note on Mt 27:27 . early in the morning: That is, the morning of Nisan 14, the day of Jesus’ trial and death. The Passover began the evening before, and as shown in the other Gospel accounts, Jesus and the apostles had eaten the Passover meal the preceding night. ( Mt 26:18-20; Mr 14:14-17; Lu 22:15 ) Therefore, in this verse, the reference to eating the Passover must refer to the meal on Nisan 15, the first day of the Festival of Unleavened Bread. In Jesus’ time, the Passover (Nisan 14) and the Festival of Unleavened Bread (Nisan 15-21) that followed were sometimes referred to collectively as “Passover.”​— Lu 22:1 . Are you the King of the Jews?: See study note on Mt 27:11 . My Kingdom is no part of this world: Jesus did not give a direct answer to Pilate’s question, “What did you do?” ( Joh 18:35 ) Instead, he kept the focus on Pilate’s first question, “Are you the King of the Jews?” ( Joh 18:33 ) In his short reply, Jesus three times mentioned the Kingdom in which he was to be installed as King. By saying that his Kingdom is “no part of this world,” Jesus made clear that the Kingdom is not from a human source. This harmonizes with earlier statements referring to “the Kingdom of the heavens” or “the Kingdom of God.” ( Mt 3:2; Mr 1:15 ) Jesus had also said that his followers were “no part of the world,” that is, the unrighteous human society alienated from God and his servants. ( Joh 17:14, 16 ) By his words to Peter earlier that evening, Jesus showed that his followers were not to fight to defend him as supporters of a human king would have done.​— Mt 26:51, 52; Joh 18:11 . You yourself are saying that I am a king: With this reply, Jesus confirms that he is a king. ( Mt 27:11 ; compare study notes on Mt 26:25, 64 .) But Jesus’ kingship differs from what Pilate imagines, since Jesus’ Kingdom is “no part of this world” and thus no threat to Rome.​— Joh 18:33-36 . bear witness to: As used in the Christian Greek Scriptures , the Greek words rendered “to bear witness” ( mar·ty·reʹo ) and “witness” ( mar·ty·riʹa; marʹtys ) are broad in meaning. These related terms are used in the basic sense of testifying to facts from firsthand or personal knowledge, but they may also include the idea of “declaring; confirming; speaking well of.” Not only did Jesus testify to and proclaim truths of which he was convinced but he also lived in such a way that he upheld the truth of his Father’s prophetic word and promises. ( 2Co 1:20 ) God’s purpose in connection with the Kingdom and its Messianic Ruler had been foretold in detail. Jesus’ entire earthly life course, culminating in his sacrificial death, fulfilled all prophecies about him, including the shadows, or patterns, contained in the Law covenant. ( Col 2:16, 17; Heb 10:1 ) So by word and deed, it may be said that Jesus ‘bore witness to the truth.’ the truth: Jesus was referring, not to truth in general, but to the truth regarding God’s purposes. A key element of God’s purpose is that Jesus, the “son of David,” serves as High Priest and as Ruler of God’s Kingdom. ( Mt 1:1 ) Jesus explained that a primary reason for his coming into the world of mankind, his life on earth, and his ministry was to declare the truth about that Kingdom. The angels declared a similar message prior to and at the time of Jesus’ birth in Bethlehem of Judea, the city where David was born.​— Lu 1:32, 33; 2:10-14 . What is truth?: Pilate’s question apparently refers to truth in general, not specifically to “the truth” that Jesus had just spoken about. ( Joh 18:37 ) Had this been a sincere question, Jesus would no doubt have answered it. But Pilate likely asks the question rhetorically in skeptical or cynical disbelief, as if to say, “Truth? What is that? There is no such thing!” In fact, Pilate does not even wait for an answer but leaves and goes outside to the Jews. you have a custom that I should release a man: This custom to release a prisoner is also mentioned at Mt 27:15 and Mr 15:6 . It was apparently of Jewish origin because Pilate said to the Jews: “You have a custom.” Although there is no basis or precedent for this custom in the Hebrew Scriptures, it seems that by Jesus’ day, the Jews had developed this tradition. The practice would not have seemed strange to the Romans, since there is evidence that they released prisoners to please the crowds. Media Kidron Valley The Kidron Valley (Nahal Qidron) separates Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives and generally runs from N to S along the eastern side of the city. The valley starts some distance to the N of Jerusalem’s walls. At first, it is broad and shallow, but then it begins to narrow and deepen. Opposite the southern end of the former temple area, it is approximately 30 m (100 ft) deep and 120 m (390 ft) wide, though it was evidently deeper in Jesus’ day. The valley continues running through the Judean wilderness to the Dead Sea. It was this valley that Jesus traversed on his way to the garden of Gethsemane after he instituted the Lord’s Evening Meal on Nisan 14, 33 C.E.— Joh 18:1 . 1. Kidron Valley 2. Temple Mount 3. Mount of Olives (portion shown is covered in tombs) Oldest Known Fragment of the Christian Greek Scriptures Shown here are the front and back of the Papyrus Rylands 457 (P 52 ) fragment, a very early copy of a portion of John’s Gospel . Housed at the John Rylands University Library in Manchester, England, it was acquired in Egypt in 1920. It preserves a portion of Joh 18:31-33 on one side and a portion of Joh 18:37, 38 on the other. The presence of writing on both sides of the papyrus is clear evidence that it was part of a codex. The fragment measures 9 by 6 cm (3.5 by 2.4 in.). Many scholars consider it to be the oldest extant Greek manuscript of the Christian Greek Scriptures , dating it to sometime in the first half of the second century C.E. The Gospel of John was written about 98 C.E., so this copy was likely made just a few decades later. The text of this fragment agrees very closely with later more complete Greek manuscripts that form the basis for modern translations of the Christian Greek Scriptures. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) John 18 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS