According to Matthew 2:1-23 2 After Jesus had been born in Bethʹle·hem + of Ju·deʹa in the days of Herod + the king, look! astrologers from the East came to Jerusalem, 2 saying: “Where is the one born king of the Jews? + For we saw his star when we were in the East, and we have come to do obeisance to him.” 3 At hearing this, King Herod was agitated, and all Jerusalem with him. 4 On gathering together all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. 5 They said to him: “In Bethʹle·hem + of Ju·deʹa, for this is how it has been written through the prophet: 6 ‘And you, O Bethʹle·hem of the land of Judah, are by no means the most insignificant city among the governors * of Judah, for out of you will come a governing one, * who will shepherd my people Israel.’” + 7 Then Herod secretly summoned the astrologers and carefully ascertained from them the time of the star’s appearing. 8 When sending them to Bethʹle·hem, he said: “Go make a careful search for the young child, and when you have found him, report back to me so that I too may go and do obeisance to him.” 9 After they had heard the king, they went their way, and look! the star they had seen when they were in the East + went ahead of them until it came to a stop above where the young child was. 10 On seeing the star, they rejoiced with great joy. 11 And when they went into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and falling down, they did obeisance to him. They also opened their treasures and presented him with gifts—gold and frankincense and myrrh. 12 However, because they were given divine warning in a dream + not to return to Herod, they departed for their country by another way. 13 After they had departed, look! Jehovah’s angel appeared to Joseph in a dream, + saying: “Get up, take the young child and his mother and flee to Egypt, and stay there until I give you word, for Herod is about to search for the young child to kill him.” 14 So Joseph got up and by night took along the young child and the child’s mother and went into Egypt. 15 He stayed there until the death of Herod. This fulfilled what was spoken by Jehovah through his prophet, saying: “Out of Egypt I called my son.” + 16 Then Herod, seeing that he had been outwitted by the astrologers, flew into a great rage, and he sent out and had all the boys in Bethʹle·hem and in all its districts killed, from two years of age and under, according to the time that he had carefully ascertained from the astrologers. + 17 Then was fulfilled what was spoken through Jeremiah + the prophet, who said: 18 “A voice was heard in Raʹmah, weeping and much wailing. It was Rachel + weeping for her children, and she was unwilling to take comfort, because they are no more.” + 19 When Herod had died, look! Jehovah’s angel appeared in a dream + to Joseph in Egypt 20 and said: “Get up, take the young child and his mother and go into the land of Israel, for those who were seeking the life of the young child are dead.” 21 So he got up and took the young child and the child’s mother and entered into the land of Israel. 22 But hearing that Ar·che·laʹus ruled Ju·deʹa instead of his father Herod, he was afraid to go there. Moreover, being given divine warning in a dream, + he withdrew into the territory of Galʹi·lee. + 23 And he came and settled in a city named Nazʹa·reth, + in order to fulfill what was spoken through the prophets: “He will be called a Naz·a·reneʹ.” + Footnotes ^ Or “a ruler; a leader.” ^ Or “rulers; leaders.” Study Notes Bethlehem of Judea: Since there was another Bethlehem, in the territory of Zebulun ( Jos 19:10, 15 ), the town in Judah (Judea) was often referred to as “Bethlehem in Judah” ( Jg 17:7-9; 19:1, 2, 18 ). The earlier name of this town was evidently Ephrath, or Ephrathah, explaining why Mic 5:2 says that the Messiah would come from “Bethlehem Ephrathah.”​— Ge 35:19; 48:7 . Herod: Refers to Herod the Great.​—See Glossary . astrologers: Greek maʹgoi (plural of maʹgos ), most likely referring to experts in astrology and other occult practices condemned in the Holy Scriptures. ( De 18:10-12 ) The Bible does not indicate the number. The same Greek term is rendered “sorcerer” at Ac 13:6, 8 and is used in the Septuagint as an equivalent for the Hebrew and Aramaic words rendered “conjurer” at Da 2:2, 10 . star: Most probably not a real star or a conjunction of planets. Only the astrologers “saw” the star. when we were in the East: The Greek word rendered “East” literally means “rising.” In this context, the expression evidently refers to the location of the astrologers when they saw the star, though some have understood it to mean that the astrologers saw the star on the eastern sky or as it was “rising,” or appearing. do obeisance: Or “bow down.” When the Greek verb pro·sky·neʹo is used to refer to the worship of a god or a deity, it is rendered “to worship.” In this context, however, the astrologers were asking for “the one born king of the Jews.” So it is clear that it refers to obeisance or homage to a human king, not a god. A similar usage is found at Mr 15:18, 19 , where the term is used of the soldiers who mockingly “bowed down” to Jesus and called him “King of the Jews.”​—See study note on Mt 18:26 . chief priests: The Greek term is rendered “high priest” when it is singular and refers to the chief representative of the people before God. Here the plural refers to principal men of the priesthood, including former high priests and, possibly, the heads of the 24 priestly divisions. scribes: This term originally referred to copyists of the Scriptures, but during Jesus’ time, it referred to those who were experts in the Law and teachers of it. the Christ: Here the title “Christ” is preceded by the definite article in Greek, evidently as a way of emphasizing Jesus’ office as the Messiah. Bethlehem: From the Hebrew name meaning “House of Bread.” Bethlehem was David’s hometown and was sometimes called “David’s city.”​— Lu 2:4, 11; Joh 7:42 . by no means the most insignificant: The prophecy at Mic 5:2 here quoted shows that Bethlehem, although insignificant in population (called a village at Joh 7:42 ) and governing power, would become very significant because the greatest governing one would come from there to shepherd God’s people Israel. do obeisance to him: Or “honor him; pay him homage.” Here Herod is claiming that he wants to perform an act of respect to a human king, not to worship a god.​—For further information on the Greek word, see study note on Mt 2:2 . house: The reference to a house shows that the astrologers did not visit Jesus when he was a newborn baby in a manger. the young child: Jesus is here not referred to as “an infant,” as he is at Lu 2:12, 16 . did obeisance: Or “bowed down.” The term often denotes respect to a human, such as a king, not worship.​—See study notes on Mt 2:2; 18:26 . gifts: When presenting Jesus at the temple 40 days after his birth ( Lu 2:22-24; Lev 12:6-8 ), Joseph and Mary were poor, indicating that these gifts were given sometime after that occasion. The gifts may have been timely, useful for financing the family’s stay in Egypt. frankincense: See Glossary . myrrh: See Glossary . look!: See study note on Mt 1:20 . Jehovah’s angel: See study note on Mt 1:20 and App. C3 introduction; Mt 2:13 . Egypt: At this time, Egypt was a Roman province and home to a large Jewish population. Bethlehem was about 9 km (6 mi) SSW of Jerusalem, so Joseph and Mary could travel SW to Egypt without passing through Jerusalem, where Herod issues his murderous edict. went into Egypt: From Bethlehem to Egypt was probably a distance of at least 120 km (75 mi). death of Herod: Herod died likely in the year 1 B.C.E. fulfilled what was spoken by Jehovah through his prophet: See study note on Mt 1:22 . Jehovah: The quote that follows is taken from Ho 11:1 , and the context ( Ho 11:1-11 ) clearly shows that this is a statement made by Jehovah God.​—See App. C3 introduction; Mt 2:15 . had all the boys . . . killed: Historians have recorded other similar acts of violence committed by Herod the Great. He murdered at least 45 supporters of one rival. Suspicion led him to cause the murder of his wife Mariamne (I), three sons, his wife’s brother, her grandfather (Hyrcanus), several who had been his best friends, and many others. To minimize the rejoicing that was sure to accompany his own death, he is said to have ordered that the principal men of the Jews be killed when he himself died. That edict was not carried out. Ramah: A city in the territory of Benjamin, N of Jerusalem. It appears that when Jerusalem was destroyed in 607 B.C.E., the Jews taken captive were assembled at Ramah before being moved to Babylon. Some scholars have concluded that such an assembling of Jews (perhaps accompanied by the slaughtering of some there) was referred to at Jer 31:15 , quoted here. Rachel: Mentioned as a symbol of all mothers in Israel. In Jeremiah’s prophecy, Rachel, whose tomb was near Bethlehem, figuratively weeps over her sons taken into exile to the land of the enemy. Jeremiah’s prophecy also contains the comforting promise of a return from enemy territory. ( Jer 31:16 ) Matthew’s inspired application of this prophecy has been understood to refer to a return from death, man’s enemy, by means of a resurrection. Jehovah’s angel: See study note on Mt 1:20 and App. C3 introduction; Mt 2:19 . life: This is the first occurrence of the Greek word psy·kheʹ, rendered “soul” in some Bible translations. Here it refers to a person’s life. The expression seeking the life of someone can also be rendered “seeking [wanting] to kill” someone.​— Ex 4:19 , ftn.; see Glossary, “ Soul .” Archelaus: A cruel ruler who, like his father, Herod the Great, was unpopular with the Jews. In quelling a riot, he had 3,000 slain within the temple grounds. Joseph was warned by God about the danger when returning from Egypt, so he settled his family in Nazareth of Galilee, outside Archelaus’ jurisdiction. Nazareth: Probably meaning “Sprout-Town.” Nazareth was the town in Lower Galilee where Jesus lived most of his earthly life. spoken through the prophets: “He will be called a Nazarene”: Evidently referring to the book written by the prophet Isaiah ( Isa 11:1 ), in which the promised Messiah is referred to as ‘a sprout [Hebrew, neʹtser ] out of the roots of Jesse.’ Since Matthew speaks of “prophets” in plural, he may also have been referring to Jeremiah, who wrote about “a righteous sprout” as an offshoot of David ( Jer 23:5; 33:15 ), and to Zechariah, who describes a king-priest “whose name is Sprout” ( Zec 3:8; 6:12, 13 ). The term “Nazarene” became an epithet applied to Jesus and later to his followers. Media Winter in Bethlehem Jesus could not have been born in December because the weather in Bethlehem is typically cold and rainy from November to March. In winter, snow may fall in this region. During this time of the year, shepherds would not be living out of doors, keeping watch over their flocks in the fields at night. ( Lu 2:8 ) Bethlehem is located some 780 m (2,560 ft) above sea level in the Judean highlands. View of the Valley of Jezreel The view shown here is from a cliff near Nazareth, looking south. The fertile Valley of Jezreel, prominent in various Bible accounts, is here shown extending eastward and westward. ( Jos 17:16; Jg 6:33; Ho 1:5 ) To the left in the distance, the most prominent feature is the hill of Moreh, with the city of Nain on its slope. It was in Nain that Jesus resurrected a widow’s son. ( Jg 7:1; Lu 7:11-15 ) In the middle of the horizon, Mount Gilboa is visible. ( 1Sa 31:1, 8 ) Jesus grew up in nearby Nazareth and may have come to this spot that overlooks a number of important locations in Israel’s history.​— Lu 2:39, 40 . Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Matthew 2 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS