According to Matthew 25:1-46 25 “Then the Kingdom of the heavens may be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps + and went out to meet the bridegroom. + 2 Five of them were foolish, and five were discreet. + 3 For the foolish took their lamps but took no oil with them, 4 whereas the discreet took oil in their flasks along with their lamps. 5 While the bridegroom was delaying, they all became drowsy and fell asleep. 6 Right in the middle of the night there was a shout: ‘Here is the bridegroom! Go out to meet him.’ 7 Then all those virgins got up and put their lamps in order. + 8 The foolish said to the discreet, ‘Give us some of your oil, because our lamps are about to go out.’ 9 The discreet answered, saying: ‘Perhaps there may not be enough for both us and you. Go instead to those who sell it, and buy some for yourselves.’ 10 While they were going off to buy it, the bridegroom came. The virgins who were ready went in with him to the marriage feast, + and the door was shut. 11 Afterward, the rest of the virgins also came, saying, ‘Sir, Sir, open to us!’ + 12 In answer he said, ‘I tell you the truth, I do not know you.’ 13 “Keep on the watch, + therefore, because you know neither the day nor the hour. + 14 “For it is just like a man about to travel abroad who summoned his slaves and entrusted his belongings to them. + 15 He gave five talents to one, two to another, and one to still another, to each according to his own ability, + and he went abroad. 16 Immediately the one who received the five talents went and did business with them and gained five more. 17 Likewise, the one who received the two gained two more. 18 But the slave who received just one went off and dug in the ground and hid his master’s money. 19 “After a long time, the master of those slaves came and settled accounts with them. + 20 So the one who had received the five talents came forward and brought five additional talents, saying, ‘Master, you entrusted five talents to me; see, I gained five talents more.’ + 21 His master said to him: ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You were faithful over a few things. I will appoint you over many things. + Enter into the joy of your master.’ * + 22 Next the one who had received the two talents came forward and said, ‘Master, you entrusted two talents to me; see, I gained two talents more.’ + 23 His master said to him: ‘Well done, good and faithful slave! You were faithful over a few things. I will appoint you over many things. Enter into the joy of your master.’ 24 “Finally the slave who had received the one talent came forward and said: ‘Master, I knew you to be a demanding * man, reaping where you did not sow and gathering where you did not winnow. + 25 So I grew afraid and went and hid your talent in the ground. Here, you have what is yours.’ 26 In reply his master said to him: ‘Wicked and sluggish * slave, you knew, did you, that I reaped where I did not sow and gathered where I did not winnow? 27 Well, then, you should have deposited my money with the bankers, and on my coming I would have received it back with interest. 28 “‘Therefore, take the talent away from him and give it to the one who has the ten talents. + 29 For to everyone who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But the one who does not have, even what he has will be taken away from him. + 30 And throw the good-for-nothing slave out into the darkness outside. There is where his weeping and the gnashing of his teeth will be.’ 31 “When the Son of man + comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, + then he will sit down on his glorious throne. 32 All the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate people one from another, just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. 33 And he will put the sheep + on his right hand, but the goats on his left. + 34 “Then the King will say to those on his right: ‘Come, you who have been blessed by my Father, inherit the Kingdom prepared for you from the founding of the world. 35 For I became hungry and you gave me something to eat; I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you received me hospitably; + 36 naked and you clothed me. + I fell sick and you looked after me. I was in prison and you visited me.’ + 37 Then the righteous ones will answer him with the words: ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you something to drink? + 38 When did we see you a stranger and receive you hospitably, or naked and clothe you? 39 When did we see you sick or in prison and visit you?’ 40 In reply the King will say to them, ‘Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me.’ + 41 “Then he will say to those on his left: ‘Go away from me, + you who have been cursed, into the everlasting fire + prepared for the Devil and his angels. + 42 For I became hungry, but you gave me nothing to eat; and I was thirsty, but you gave me nothing to drink. 43 I was a stranger, but you did not receive me hospitably; naked, but you did not clothe me; sick and in prison, but you did not look after me.’ 44 Then they too will answer with the words: ‘Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison and did not minister to you?’ 45 Then he will answer them, saying: ‘Truly I say to you, to the extent that you did not do it to one of these least ones, you did not do it to me.’ + 46 These will depart into everlasting cutting-off, + but the righteous ones into everlasting life.” + Footnotes ^ Or “Rejoice with your master; Come and share your master’s happiness.” ^ Or “hard; harsh.” ^ Or “lazy; reluctant; idle.” Study Notes ten virgins . . . to meet the bridegroom: In Bible times, an important feature of the marriage ceremony was the solemn procession to bring the bride from her father’s home to the home of her bridegroom or the bridegroom’s father. The bridegroom, wearing his best clothing and escorted by his friends, would leave his house in the evening for the home of the bride’s parents. From there, accompanied by musicians and singers and usually by people carrying lamps, the couple made their way toward the bridegroom’s home. The people along the route would take great interest in the procession. ( Isa 62:5; Jer 7:34; 16:9 ) Young women carrying lamps were apparently among those joining the procession. As there was no particular haste, the procession might be delayed, so that some waiting along the way would get drowsy and fall asleep. The long waiting period might require refilling with oil the lamps carried in the procession. Singing and exultation would be heard quite a distance away. Then, after the bridegroom and his entourage entered the house and closed the door, it was too late for tardy guests to enter.​— Mt 25:5-12 ; see study note on Mt 1:20 . discreet: Or “wise.”​—See study note on Mt 24:45 . put their lamps in order: Evidently referring to what needed to be done, including trimming the wicks and adding oil so that the lamps would burn brightly. Keep on the watch: Lit., “Stay awake.” This exhortation to stay awake spiritually is the basic message of the parable of the ten virgins.​—See study notes on Mt 24:42; 26:38 . talents: A Greek talent was, not a coin, but a unit of weight and money. One Greek silver talent equaled 20.4 kg (654 oz t) and was worth approximately 6,000 drachmas or Roman denarii. It was the equivalent of about 20 years’ wages for a common laborer.​—See App. B14 . money: Lit., “silver,” that is, silver used as money. hid your talent in the ground: Evidence of this practice is seen in the large quantities of valuables and coins unearthed by both archaeologists and farmers in Bible lands. bankers . . . interest: During the first century C.E., moneylenders, or bankers, were prominent in Israel and surrounding nations. The Law forbade the Israelites from charging interest on loans to needy fellow Jews ( Ex 22:25 ), but interest was specifically allowed on loans to foreigners, likely for business ventures ( De 23:20 ). In Jesus’ day, it was evidently common to receive interest on funds deposited with moneylenders. gnashing of his teeth: See study note on Mt 8:12 . Son of man: See study note on Mt 8:20 . comes: See study note on Mt 24:30 . just as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats: Jesus here refers to a scene familiar to his listeners. In Bible times, shepherds cared for mixed flocks. ( Ge 30:32, 33; 31:38 ) Sheep and goats commonly grazed together in the Middle East , and the shepherd could easily identify the two kinds of animals when he wanted to separate them. This separation may have been done for a variety of reasons. For example, it may have been for pasturing, breeding, milking, shearing, slaughtering, or even helping the animals to group together to stay warm at night. Whatever the case, this illustration well describes the clear separation that will take place when “the Son of man comes in his glory.”​— Mt 25:31 . on his right hand . . . on his left: In some contexts, both positions indicate honor and authority ( Mt 20:21, 23 ), but the place of greatest honor is always on the right ( Ps 110:1; Ac 7:55, 56; Ro 8:34 ). However, here and at Mt 25:34, 41 , there is a clear contrast between the place of favor at the King’s right hand and that of disfavor at his left.​—Compare Ec 10:2 , ftns. the goats: Although Jesus is referring to people who do not support his spiritual brothers, he is not necessarily using “goats” in this illustration because of some negative characteristic that these animals demonstrate. While it is true that goats display a more independent and, at times, more stubborn nature than sheep do, they were nevertheless clean animals for the Jews and could be used in place of sheep for the Passover meal. ( Ex 12:5; De 14:4 ) Additionally, the Mosaic Law required that on the annual Day of Atonement, the blood of a goat be used to make atonement for the sins of Israel. ( Le 16:7-27 ) Jesus seems merely to be using the goats to represent one class of people and the sheep to represent another class.​— Mt 25:32 . inherit: The basic meaning of the Greek verb is for an heir to receive something as a right, often because of relationship, such as a son receiving an inheritance from his father. ( Ga 4:30 ) But here, as in most occurrences in the Christian Greek Scriptures , the term is used in the broader sense of receiving something as a reward from God.​— Mt 19:29; 1Co 6:9 . the Kingdom: In the Bible, the term “kingdom” is used in several different ways, including “the region or country governed by a king,” “kingly power,” “a realm,” and “being ruled by a king.” Here it is evidently used in the sense of receiving the benefits or blessings of being ruled by God’s Kingdom and enjoying life within its realm. founding of the world: The Greek word for “founding” is rendered “to conceive” at Heb 11:11 , where it is used with “offspring.” Here used in the expression “founding of the world,” it apparently refers to the conception and birth of children born to Adam and Eve. Jesus associates “the founding of the world” with Abel, evidently the first redeemable human of the world of mankind whose name was written in the scroll of life from “the founding of the world.”​— Lu 11:50, 51; Re 17:8 . naked: Or “not sufficiently dressed.” The Greek word gy·mnosʹ can have the meaning “lightly clad; in the undergarment only.”​— Jas 2:15 , ftn. Truly: See study note on Mt 5:18 . brothers: The plural form of the Greek word for “brother” can refer to both men and women. cutting-off: That is, from life. The Greek word koʹla·sis is used of “pruning” or “lopping off” needless branches from trees. This “cutting-off” would be “everlasting,” since the person would be cut off from life with no hope of a resurrection. Media Winnowing Grain A farmer used a winnowing shovel to hurl threshed grain into the air. The heavy grain fell to the floor, and the lighter chaff blew away in the breeze. He repeated the action over and over until all the grain was separated. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Matthew 25 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS