According to Matthew 8:1-34 8 After he came down from the mountain, large crowds followed him. 2 And look! a leper came up and did obeisance to him, saying: “Lord, if you just want to, you can make me clean.” + 3 So stretching out his hand, he touched him, saying: “I want to! Be made clean.” + Immediately his leprosy was cleansed away. + 4 Then Jesus said to him: “See that you tell no one, + but go, show yourself to the priest, + and offer the gift that Moses appointed, + for a witness to them.” + 5 When he entered Ca·perʹna·um, an army officer came to him, pleading with him + 6 and saying: “Sir, my servant is laid up in the house with paralysis, and he is suffering terribly.” * 7 He said to him: “When I get there, I will cure him.” 8 The army officer replied: “Sir, I am not worthy to have you come under my roof, but just say the word and my servant will be healed. 9 For I too am a man under authority, having soldiers under me, and I say to this one, ‘Go!’ and he goes, and to another, ‘Come!’ and he comes, and to my slave, ‘Do this!’ and he does it.” 10 When Jesus heard that, he was amazed and said to those following him: “I tell you the truth, with no one in Israel have I found so great a faith. + 11 But I tell you that many from east and west will come and recline at the table with Abraham and Isaac and Jacob in the Kingdom of the heavens; + 12 whereas the sons of the Kingdom will be thrown into the darkness outside. There is where their weeping and the gnashing of their teeth will be.” + 13 Then Jesus said to the army officer: “Go. Just as you have shown faith, so let it come to pass for you.” + And the servant was healed in that hour. + 14 And Jesus, on coming into Peter’s house, saw his mother-in-law + lying down and sick with fever. + 15 So he touched her hand, + and the fever left her, and she got up and began ministering to him. 16 But after it became evening, people brought him many demon-possessed ones; and he expelled the spirits with a word, and he cured all who were suffering, 17 in order to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet: “He himself took our sicknesses and carried our diseases.” + 18 When Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave the command to depart for the other side. + 19 And a scribe came up and said to him: “Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go.” + 20 But Jesus said to him: “Foxes have dens and birds of heaven have nests, but the Son of man has nowhere to lay down his head.” + 21 Then another of the disciples said to him: “Lord, permit me first to go and bury my father.” + 22 Jesus said to him: “Keep following me, and let the dead bury their dead.” + 23 And when he went aboard a boat, his disciples followed him. + 24 Now look! a great storm arose on the sea, so that the boat was being covered by the waves; but he was sleeping. + 25 And they came and woke him up, saying: “Lord, save us, we are about to perish!” 26 But he said to them: “Why are you so afraid, * you with little faith?” + Then he got up and rebuked the winds and the sea, and a great calm set in. + 27 So the men were amazed and said: “What sort of person is this? Even the winds and the sea obey him.” 28 When he came to the other side into the region of the Gad·a·renesʹ, two demon-possessed men coming out from among * the tombs met him. + They were unusually fierce, so nobody had the courage to pass by on that road. 29 And look! they screamed, saying: “What have we to do with you, Son of God? + Did you come here to torment us + before the appointed time?” + 30 A long way off from them, a herd of many swine was feeding. + 31 So the demons began to plead with him, saying: “If you expel us, send us into the herd of swine.” + 32 And he said to them: “Go!” With that they came out and went off into the swine, and look! the entire herd rushed over the precipice * into the sea and died in the waters. 33 But the herders fled, and going into the city, they reported everything, including the account of the demon-possessed men. 34 And look! all the city turned out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they urged him to depart from their region. + Footnotes ^ Or “is terribly afflicted.” ^ Or “fainthearted.” ^ Or “coming out of.” ^ Or “steep bank.” Study Notes look!: See study note on Mt 1:20 . a leper: A person suffering from a serious skin disease. The leprosy referred to in the Bible is not restricted to the disease known by that name today. Anyone diagnosed with leprosy became an outcast from society until he was cured.​— Le 13:2 , ftn., 45, 46 ; see Glossary, “ Leprosy; Leper .” did obeisance to him: Or “bowed down to him; honored him.” People mentioned in the Hebrew Scriptures also bowed down when meeting prophets, kings, or other representatives of God. ( 1Sa 25:23, 24; 2Sa 14:4-7; 1Ki 1:16; 2Ki 4:36, 37 ) This man evidently recognized that he was talking to a representative of God who had power to heal people. It was appropriate to bow down to show respect for Jehovah’s King-Designate.​— Mt 9:18 ; for more information on the Greek word used here, see study note on Mt 2:2 . he touched him: The Mosaic Law required that lepers be quarantined to protect others from contamination. ( Le 13:45, 46; Nu 5:1-4 ) However, Jewish religious leaders imposed additional rules. For example, no one was to come within four cubits, that is, about 1.8 m (6 ft) of a leper, but on windy days, the distance was 100 cubits, that is, about 45 m (150 ft). Such rules led to heartless treatment of lepers. Tradition speaks favorably of a rabbi who hid from lepers and of another who threw stones at them to keep them at a distance. By contrast, Jesus was so deeply moved by the leper’s plight that he did what other Jews would consider unthinkable​—he touched the man. He did so even though he could have cured the leper with just a word.​— Mt 8:5-13 . I want to: Jesus not only acknowledged the request but expressed a strong desire to respond to it, showing that he was motivated by more than just a sense of duty. tell no one: See study note on Mr 1:44 . show yourself to the priest: In accord with the Mosaic Law, a priest had to verify that a leper had been healed. The cured leper had to travel to the temple and bring as an offering, or gift, two live clean birds, cedarwood, scarlet material, and hyssop.​— Le 14:2-32 . Capernaum: See study note on Mt 4:13 . army officer: Or “ centurion ,” that is, one in command of about 100 soldiers in the Roman army. my servant: The Greek term here rendered “servant” literally means “child; youth” and could be used of a slave who was regarded with some degree of affection, possibly a personal servant. many from east and west: An indication that non-Jews would have a part in the Kingdom. recline at the table: Or “dine.” In Bible times, couches were often placed around a table at banquets or large meals. Those partaking of the meal reclined on a couch with their head toward the table, often resting their left elbow on a cushion. Food was usually taken with the right hand. To recline at a table with someone indicated close fellowship with that person. Jews at that time would normally never have done so with non-Jews. gnashing of their teeth: Or “grinding (clenching) their teeth.” The expression can include the idea of anguish, despair, and anger, possibly accompanied by bitter words and violent action. his mother-in-law: See study note on Lu 4:38 . sick with fever: See study note on Lu 4:38 . after it became evening: That is, after the Sabbath day ended, as the parallel accounts at Mr 1:21-32 and Lu 4:31-40 show. in order to fulfill what was spoken through Isaiah the prophet: See study note on Mt 1:22 . carried: Or “carried away; removed.” Under inspiration, Matthew here applies Isa 53:4 to the miraculous cures performed by Jesus. The greater fulfillment of Isa 53:4 will occur when Jesus carries away sin completely, just as the goat “for Azazel” carried the sins of Israel into the wilderness on Atonement Day. ( Le 16:10, 20-22 ) By carrying away sin, Jesus would eliminate the root cause of sickness for all who exercise faith in the value of his sacrifice. the other side: That is, the eastern shore of the Sea of Galilee. Son of man: Or “Son of a human.” This expression occurs about 80 times in the Gospels . Jesus used it to refer to himself, evidently emphasizing that he was truly human, born from a woman, and that he was a fitting human counterpart to Adam, having the power to redeem humankind from sin and death. ( Ro 5:12, 14-15 ) The same expression also identified Jesus as the Messiah, or the Christ.​— Da 7:13, 14 ; see Glossary . nowhere to lay down his head: That is, no residence that he could call his own. bury my father: See study note on Lu 9:59 . let the dead bury their dead: See study note on Lu 9:60 . great storm: Such storms are common on the Sea of Galilee. Its surface is about 210 m (700 ft) below sea level, and the air temperature is warmer on the sea than in the surrounding plateaus and mountains. Those conditions result in atmospheric disturbances and strong winds that can quickly whip up waves. you with little faith: Jesus did not imply an absence of faith but rather a deficiency of faith.​— Mt 14:31; 16:8; Lu 12:28 ; see study note on Mt 6:30 . region of the Gadarenes: A region on the other (the eastern) shore of the Sea of Galilee. It may have been the region extending from the sea to Gadara, which was 10 km (6 mi) from the sea. Supporting this idea, coins from Gadara often depict a ship. Mark and Luke call the area “the region of the Gerasenes.” (See study note on Mr 5:1 .) The different regions may have been overlapping.​—See App. A7 , Map 3B, “Activity at the Sea of Galilee,” and App. B10 . two: The accounts of Mark ( 5:2 ) and Luke ( 8:27 ) mention only one demon-possessed man.​—See study note on Mr 5:2 . tombs: Or “memorial tombs.” (See Glossary, “ Memorial tomb .”) These tombs were evidently caves or chambers cut into the natural rock and usually located outside the cities. These burial places were avoided by the Jews because of the ceremonial uncleanness connected with them, making them an ideal haunt for crazed or demonized people. What have we to do with you, . . . ?: Or “What is there in common between us and you?” Literally translated, this rhetorical question reads: “What to us and to you?” This Semitic idiom is found in the Hebrew Scriptures ( Jos 22:24; Jg 11:12; 2Sa 16:10; 19:22; 1Ki 17:18; 2Ki 3:13; 2Ch 35:21; Ho 14:8 ), and a corresponding Greek phrase is used in the Christian Greek Scriptures ( Mt 8:29; Mr 1:24; 5:7; Lu 4:34; 8:28; Joh 2:4 ). The exact meaning may vary, depending on context. In this verse, it expresses hostility and repulsion, and some have suggested a rendering such as: “Do not bother us!” or “Leave us alone!” In other contexts, it is used to express a difference in viewpoint or opinion or to refuse involvement in a suggested action, without indicating disdain, arrogance, or hostility.​—See study note on Joh 2:4 . torment us: A related Greek term is used of “the jailers” at Mt 18:34 , so in this context, the “torment” would seem to refer to a restraining or a confining to “the abyss” mentioned in the parallel account at Lu 8:31 . swine: Pigs were unclean according to the Law but were raised in this area. Whether “the herders” ( Mt 8:33 ) were Jews violating the Law is not stated. However, there was a market for pork among the many non-Jews living in the Decapolis region, since both Greeks and Romans considered pork a delicacy. Media A Roman Centurion, or Army Officer, Dressed for Battle The office of centurion was the highest rank that the common soldier could reach. He drilled the soldiers; inspected their arms, supplies, and food; and regulated their conduct. For the most part, the readiness and efficiency of the Roman army depended on centurions more than on anyone else. They were, generally speaking, the most experienced and valuable men in the Roman army. This made the humility and faith of the centurion who approached Jesus all the more impressive. Foxes’ Dens and Birds’ Nests Jesus contrasted his own situation of not having a permanent home with foxes that have dens and birds that have nests. The type of foxes shown here ( Vulpes vulpes ) inhabit not only the Middle East but also Africa, Asia, Europe, and North America and have been introduced into Australia. Unless foxes use a natural crevice or the deserted or usurped burrow of another animal, they commonly dig holes in the ground to form their dens. The bird, a Cetti’s Warbler ( Cettia cetti ), is one of an estimated 470 varieties that may be found in Israel at some time during the course of a year. Bird’s nests likewise are diverse, located in trees, in hollow tree trunks, and on cliffs, and are made of such materials as twigs, leaves, seaweed, wool, straw, moss, and feathers. The diverse topography of the country, ranging from cool mountain peaks to deep sweltering valleys and from arid deserts to maritime plains all lying together near the southeast corner of the Mediterranean Sea, makes it an attractive habitat for birds that either live here permanently or migrate throughout the region. Cliffs on the Eastern Side of the Sea of Galilee It was along the eastern shore of the Sea of Galilee that Jesus expelled demons from two men and sent the demons into a herd of swine. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Matthew 8 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS