DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 To the Hebrews 11:1-40 PLAY OUTLINE OF CONTENTS Definition of faith ( 1, 2 ) Examples of faith ( 3-40 ) Impossible to please God without faith ( 6 ) 11 Faith is the assured expectation of what is hoped for, + the evident demonstration * of realities that are not seen. 2 For by means of it, the men of ancient times * had witness borne to them. 3 By faith we perceive that the systems of things * were put in order by God’s word, so that what is seen has come into existence from things that are not visible. 4 By faith Abel offered God a sacrifice of greater worth than that of Cain, + and through that faith he received the witness that he was righteous, for God approved * his gifts, + and although he died, he still speaks + through his faith. 5 By faith Eʹnoch + was transferred so as not to see death, and he was nowhere to be found because God had transferred him; + for before he was transferred he received the witness that he had pleased God well. 6 Moreover, without faith it is impossible to please God well, for whoever approaches God must believe that he is * and that he becomes the rewarder of those earnestly seeking him. + 7 By faith Noah, + after receiving divine warning of things not yet seen, + showed godly fear and constructed an ark + for the saving of his household; and through this faith he condemned the world, + and he became an heir of the righteousness that results from faith. 8 By faith Abraham, + when he was called, obeyed by going out to a place he was to receive as an inheritance; he went out, although not knowing where he was going. + 9 By faith he lived as a foreigner in the land of the promise as in a foreign land, + living in tents + with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the very same promise. + 10 For he was awaiting the city having real foundations, whose designer * and builder is God. + 11 By faith also Sarah received power to conceive offspring, * even when she was past the age, + since she considered Him faithful * who made the promise. 12 For this reason, from one man who was as good as dead, + there were born children, + as many as the stars of heaven in number and as innumerable as the sands by the seaside. + 13 In faith all of these died, although they did not receive the fulfillment of the promises; + but they saw them from a distance + and welcomed them and publicly declared that they were strangers and temporary residents in the land. 14 For those who speak in such a way make it evident that they are earnestly seeking a place of their own. 15 And yet, if they had kept remembering the place from which they had departed, + they would have had opportunity to return. 16 But now they are reaching out for a better place, that is, one belonging to heaven. Therefore, God is not ashamed of them, to be called on as their God, + for he has prepared a city for them. + 17 By faith Abraham, when he was tested, + as good as offered up Isaac—the man who had gladly received the promises attempted to offer up his only-begotten son + — 18 although it had been said to him: “What will be called your offspring * will be through Isaac.” + 19 But he reasoned that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, and he did receive him from there in an illustrative way. + 20 By faith also Isaac blessed Jacob + and Eʹsau + concerning things to come. 21 By faith Jacob, when about to die, + blessed each of the sons of Joseph + and worshipped while leaning on the top of his staff. + 22 By faith Joseph, nearing his end, spoke of the exodus of the sons of Israel, and he gave instructions * concerning his bones. * + 23 By faith Moses was hid by his parents for three months after his birth, + because they saw that the young child was beautiful + and they did not fear the order of the king. + 24 By faith Moses, when grown up, + refused to be called the son of Pharʹaoh’s daughter, + 25 choosing to be mistreated with the people of God rather than to have the temporary enjoyment of sin, 26 because he considered the reproach of the Christ to be riches greater than the treasures of Egypt, for he looked intently toward the payment of the reward. 27 By faith he left Egypt, + but not fearing the anger of the king, + for he continued steadfast as seeing the One who is invisible. + 28 By faith he observed the Passover and the splashing of the blood, so that the destroyer might not harm * their firstborn. + 29 By faith they passed through the Red Sea as on dry land, + but when the Egyptians attempted it, they were swallowed up. + 30 By faith the walls of Jerʹi·cho fell down after the people had marched around them for seven days. + 31 By faith Raʹhab the prostitute did not perish with those who acted disobediently, because she received the spies in a peaceable way. + 32 And what more will I say? For time will fail me if I go on to relate about Gidʹe·on, + Baʹrak, + Samson, + Jephʹthah, + David, + as well as Samuel + and the other prophets. 33 Through faith they defeated kingdoms, + brought about righteousness, obtained promises, + stopped the mouths of lions, + 34 quenched the force of fire, + escaped the edge of the sword, + from a weak state were made powerful, + became mighty in war, + routed invading armies. + 35 Women received their dead by resurrection, + but other men were tortured because they would not accept release by some ransom, in order that they might attain a better resurrection. 36 Yes, others received their trial by mockings and scourgings, indeed, more than that, by chains + and prisons. + 37 They were stoned, + they were tried, they were sawn in two, * they were slaughtered by the sword, + they went about in sheepskins, in goatskins, + while they were in need, in tribulation, + mistreated; + 38 and the world was not worthy of them. They wandered about in deserts and mountains and caves + and dens of the earth. 39 And yet all of these, although they received a favorable witness because of their faith, did not obtain the fulfillment of the promise, 40 because God had foreseen something better for us, + so that they might not be made perfect apart from us. Footnotes ^ Or “convincing evidence.” ^ Or “our ancestors.” ^ Or “the ages.” See Glossary . ^ Or “bore witness by acknowledging.” ^ Or “exists.” ^ Or “architect.” ^ Lit., “seed.” ^ Or “trustworthy.” ^ Lit., “seed.” ^ Or “burial.” ^ Or “a command.” ^ Lit., “touch.” ^ Or “sawn apart.” Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (2013 REVISION) Hebrews 11 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001061103/univ/art/1001061103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwt p. 40 Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) PDF EPUB JWPUB Screen Reader (RTF) Notetaker (BRL) DAISY Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar Hebrews OUTLINE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13