DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 Mark 16:1-20 PLAY 16 So when the sabbath + had passed, Mary Magʹda·lene, + and Mary the mother of James, and Sa·loʹme bought spices in order to come and grease him. + 2 And very early on the first day + of the week they came to the memorial tomb, when the sun had risen. + 3 And they were saying one to another: “Who will roll the stone away from the door of the memorial tomb for us?” 4 But when they looked up, they beheld that the stone had been rolled away, although it was very large. + 5 When they entered into the memorial tomb, they saw a young man sitting on the right side clothed in a white robe, and they were stunned. + 6 He said to them: “Stop being stunned. Y OU are looking for Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ, who was impaled. * + He was raised + up, he is not here. See! The place where they laid him. + 7 But go, tell his disciples and Peter, ‘He is going ahead of YOU into Galʹi·lee; + there YOU will see him, just as he told YOU .’” + 8 So when they came out they fled from the memorial tomb, for trembling and strong emotion were gripping them. And they told nobody anything, for they were in fear. * + SHORT CONCLUSION Some late manuscripts and versions contain a short conclusion after Mark 16:8, as follows: But all the things that had been commanded they related briefly to those around Peter. Further, after these things, Jesus himself sent out through them from the east to the west the holy and incorruptible proclamation of everlasting salvation. LONG CONCLUSION Certain ancient manuscripts (ACD) and versions (VgSy c,p ) add the following long conclusion, but which אBSy s Arm omit: 9 After he rose early on the first day of the week he appeared first to Mary Magʹda·lene, from whom he had expelled seven demons. 10 She went and reported to those who had been with him, as they were mourning and weeping. 11 But they, when they heard he had come to life and had been viewed by her, did not believe. 12 Moreover, after these things he appeared in another form to two of them walking along, as they were going into the country; 13 and they came back and reported to the rest. Neither did they believe these. 14 But later he appeared to the eleven themselves as they were reclining at the table, and he reproached their lack of faith and hardheartedness, because they did not believe those who had beheld him now raised up from the dead. 15 And he said to them: “Go into all the world and preach the good news to all creation. 16 He that believes and is baptized will be saved, but he that does not believe will be condemned. 17 Furthermore, these signs will accompany those believing: By the use of my name they will expel demons, they will speak with tongues, 18 and with their hands they will pick up serpents, and if they drink anything deadly it will not hurt them at all. They will lay their hands upon sick persons, and these will become well.” 19 So, then, the Lord Jesus, after having spoken to them, was taken up to heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. 20 They, accordingly, went out and preached everywhere, while the Lord worked with them and backed up the message through the accompanying signs. Footnotes ^ Or, “fastened on a stake (pole).” See App 5C . ^ Manuscript L 019 (Codex Regius of the eighth cent.) contains both long and short conclusions after vs 8, giving the short conclusion first and prefixing to each conclusion a note that says these passages are current in some quarters, while evidently not recognizing either conclusion as authoritative. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (1984 EDITION) Mark 16 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1011208/univ/wpub/1011208_univ_sqr_xl.jpg Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next Books of the Bible DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) PDF EPUB JWPUB Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next Books of the Bible Mark 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16