DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Zechariah 5:1-11 PLAY 5 Then I raised my eyes again and saw; and, look! a flying scroll. + 2 So he said to me: “What are you seeing?” + In turn I said: “I am seeing a flying scroll, the length of which is twenty cubits, and the breadth of which is ten cubits.” 3 Then he said to me: “This is the curse that is going forth over the surface of all the earth, + because everyone that is stealing, + according to it on this side, has gone free of punishment; and everyone making a sworn oath, + according to it on that side, + has gone free of punishment. 4 ‘I have caused it to go forth,’ is the utterance of Jehovah of armies, ‘and it must enter into the house of the thief and into the house of the one making a sworn oath in my name falsely; + and it must lodge in the midst of his house and exterminate it and its timbers and its stones.’” + 5 Then the angel who was speaking with me went forth and said to me: “Raise your eyes, please, and see what this is that is going forth.” 6 So I said: “What is it?” In turn he said: “This is the eʹphah * measure that is going forth.” And he went on to say: “This is their aspect * in all the earth.” * 7 And, look! the circular lid of lead was lifted up; and this is a certain woman sitting in the midst of the eʹphah. 8 So he said: “This is Wickedness.” And he proceeded to throw her [back] into the midst of the eʹphah, + after which he threw the lead weight upon its mouth. 9 Then I raised my eyes and saw, and here there were two women coming forth, and wind * was in their wings. And they had wings like the wings of the stork. And they gradually raised the eʹphah up between the earth and the heavens. 10 So I said to the angel who was speaking with me: “Where are they taking the eʹphah?” 11 In turn he said to me: “In order to build + for her a house in the land of Shiʹnar; * + and it must be firmly established, and she must be deposited there upon her proper place.” Footnotes ^ About 22 L (20 dry qt). ^ Lit., “eye,” MVg; LXX, “unrighteousness”; Sy, “debt.” ^ Or, “the land .” Heb., ha· ʼaʹrets . ^ “And wind .” Heb., we ruʹach ; Gr., pneuʹma ; Lat., spiʹri·tus . See Ge 1:2 ftn, “Force.” ^ “Shinar,” M; Lat., Senʹna·ar; LXX, “Babylon”; TSy, “Babel.” Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (1984 EDITION) Zechariah 5 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1011208/univ/wpub/1011208_univ_sqr_xl.jpg Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next Books of the Bible DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) PDF EPUB JWPUB Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next Books of the Bible Zechariah 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14