DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 The First of Kings 11:1-43 PLAY OUTLINE OF CONTENTS Solomon’s wives incline his heart ( 1-13 ) Resisters against Solomon ( 14-25 ) Jeroboam promised ten tribes ( 26-40 ) Solomon dies; Rehoboam made king ( 41-43 ) 11 But King Solʹo·mon loved many foreign women + besides the daughter of Pharʹaoh: + Moʹab·ite, + Amʹmon·ite, + Eʹdom·ite, Si·doʹni·an, + and Hitʹtite + women. 2 They were from the nations about whom Jehovah had said to the Israelites: “You must not go in among them, * and they should not come in among you, for they will surely incline your heart to follow their gods.” + But Solʹo·mon clung to them and loved them. 3 And he had 700 wives who were princesses and 300 concubines, and his wives gradually inclined his heart. * 4 In Solʹo·mon’s old age, + his wives inclined * his heart to follow other gods, + and his heart was not complete with * Jehovah his God like the heart of David his father. 5 And Solʹo·mon followed after Ashʹto·reth, + the goddess of the Si·doʹni·ans, and Milʹcom, + the disgusting god of the Amʹmon·ites. 6 And Solʹo·mon did what was bad in the eyes of Jehovah, and he did not follow Jehovah completely * as David his father had done. + 7 It was then that Solʹo·mon built a high place + to Cheʹmosh, the disgusting god of Moʹab, on the mountain in front of Jerusalem and to Moʹlech, + the disgusting god of the Amʹmon·ites. + 8 That was what he did for all his foreign wives who were making sacrificial smoke and sacrificing to their gods. 9 Jehovah became furious at Solʹo·mon, because his heart had inclined away from Jehovah the God of Israel, + who had appeared to him twice + 10 and had warned him about this very thing, that he should not go after other gods. + But he did not obey what Jehovah had commanded. 11 Jehovah now said to Solʹo·mon: “Because you have done this and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes as I commanded you, I will surely rip the kingdom away from you, and I will give it to one of your servants. + 12 However, for the sake of your father David, I will not do it in your lifetime. I will rip it out of the hand of your son, + 13 but I will not rip away the entire kingdom. + One tribe I will give to your son, + for the sake of David my servant and for the sake of Jerusalem, which I have chosen.” + 14 Jehovah then raised up a resister against Solʹo·mon, + Haʹdad the Eʹdom·ite, of the royal family of Eʹdom. + 15 When David defeated Eʹdom, + Joʹab the chief of the army went up to bury the slain, and he tried to strike down every male in Eʹdom. 16 (For Joʹab and all Israel stayed there for six months until he had done away with * every male in Eʹdom.) 17 But Haʹdad fled with some of his father’s Eʹdom·ite servants, and they went to Egypt; Haʹdad was then a young boy. 18 So they set out from Midʹi·an and came to Paʹran. They took men with them from Paʹran + and came to Egypt, to Pharʹaoh king of Egypt, who gave him a house, assigned him a food allowance, and gave him land. 19 Haʹdad found favor in the eyes of Pharʹaoh, so much so that he gave him in marriage the sister of his own wife, Tahʹpe·nes the queen. * 20 In time the sister of Tahʹpe·nes bore him a son, Ge·nuʹbath, and Tahʹpe·nes brought him up * in the house of Pharʹaoh, and Ge·nuʹbath remained in the house of Pharʹaoh among the sons of Pharʹaoh. 21 Haʹdad heard in Egypt that David had been laid to rest with his forefathers + and that Joʹab the chief of the army had died. + So Haʹdad said to Pharʹaoh: “Send me away, so that I may go to my own land.” 22 But Pharʹaoh said to him: “What have you lacked with me that you now seek to go to your own land?” To this he said: “Nothing, but please send me away.” 23 God also raised up against Solʹo·mon another resister, + Reʹzon the son of E·liʹa·da, who had fled from his lord, Had·ad·eʹzer + the king of Zoʹbah. 24 He gathered men to himself and became chief of a marauder band when David defeated * them. + So they went to Damascus + and settled there and began reigning in Damascus. 25 And he became a resister of Israel all the days of Solʹo·mon, adding to the harm done by Haʹdad, and he abhorred Israel while he reigned over Syria. 26 And there was Jer·o·boʹam + the son of Neʹbat, an Eʹphra·im·ite from Zerʹe·dah, a servant of Solʹo·mon’s + whose mother’s name was Ze·ruʹah, a widow. He too began to rebel * against the king. + 27 This is why he rebelled against the king: Solʹo·mon had built the Mound * + and had closed up the gap of the City of David his father. + 28 Now this Jer·o·boʹam was a capable man. When Solʹo·mon saw that the young man was a hard worker, he made him overseer + over all the compulsory service of the house of Joseph. 29 During that time Jer·o·boʹam went out from Jerusalem, and the prophet A·hiʹjah + the Shiʹlo·nite found him on the road. A·hiʹjah was wearing a new garment, and the two of them were by themselves in the field. 30 A·hiʹjah took hold of the new garment he was wearing and ripped it into 12 pieces. 31 Then he said to Jer·o·boʹam: “Take ten pieces for yourself, for this is what Jehovah the God of Israel says: ‘Here I am ripping the kingdom out of the hand of Solʹo·mon, and I will give you ten tribes. + 32 But one tribe will remain his + for the sake of my servant David + and for the sake of Jerusalem, the city I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel. + 33 I will do this because they have left me + and are bowing down to Ashʹto·reth the goddess of the Si·doʹni·ans, to Cheʹmosh the god of Moʹab, and to Milʹcom the god of the Amʹmon·ites, and they have not walked in my ways by doing what is right in my eyes and observing my statutes and my judgments as his father David did. 34 But I will not take the entire kingdom out of his hand, and I will keep him as a chieftain for all the days of his life, for the sake of David my servant whom I chose, + because he obeyed my commandments and my statutes. 35 But I will take the kingship out of the hand of his son and give it to you, that is, ten tribes. + 36 To his son I will give one tribe, so that David my servant may always have a lamp before me in Jerusalem, + the city that I have chosen for myself as the place to put my name. 37 I will take you, and you will reign over all that you desire, * and you will become king over Israel. 38 And if you obey all that I command you and walk in my ways and do what is right in my eyes by obeying my statutes and my commandments, just as David my servant did, + I will also be with you. I will build you a lasting house, just as I have built for David, + and I will give you Israel. 39 And I will humiliate the offspring of David because of this, + but not always.’” + 40 So Solʹo·mon tried to put Jer·o·boʹam to death, but Jer·o·boʹam fled to Egypt, to Shiʹshak + the king of Egypt, + and he remained in Egypt until Solʹo·mon’s death. 41 As for the rest of the history of Solʹo·mon, all that he did and his wisdom, is it not written in the book of the history of Solʹo·mon? + 42 The length * of Solʹo·mon’s reign in Jerusalem over all Israel was 40 years. 43 Then Solʹo·mon was laid to rest with his forefathers and was buried in the City of David his father; and his son Re·ho·boʹam + became king in his place. Footnotes ^ Or “You must not intermarry with them.” ^ Or “his wives had a powerful influence over him.” ^ Or “turned away.” ^ Or “completely devoted to.” ^ Lit., “fully.” ^ Lit., “cut off.” ^ Not a ruling queen. ^ Or possibly, “weaned him.” ^ Lit., “killed.” ^ Lit., “lift his hand.” ^ Or “Millo.” A Hebrew term meaning “fill.” ^ Or “your soul desires.” ^ Lit., “The days.” Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (2013 REVISION) 1 Kings 11 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001061103/univ/art/1001061103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwt p. 40 Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) PDF EPUB JWPUB Screen Reader (RTF) Notetaker (BRL) DAISY Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar 1 Kings OUTLINE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22