DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 The First of Kings 6:1-38 PLAY OUTLINE OF CONTENTS Solomon builds the temple ( 1-38 ) Innermost room ( 19-22 ) Cherubs ( 23-28 ) Engravings, doors, inner courtyard ( 29-36 ) Temple completed in about seven years ( 37, 38 ) 6 In the 480th year after the Israelites * came out of the land of Egypt, + in the fourth year after Solʹo·mon became king over Israel, in the month of Ziv * + (that is, the second month), he began to build the house of Jehovah. * + 2 The house that King Solʹo·mon built for Jehovah was 60 cubits * long, 20 cubits wide, and 30 cubits high. + 3 The porch + in front of the temple * was 20 cubits long, * corresponding to the width of the house. * Its depth was ten cubits from the front of the house. 4 He made windows of narrowing frames * + for the house. 5 Further, he built a side structure against the wall of the house; it went around the walls of the house, those of the temple * and the innermost room, + and he made side chambers all around. + 6 The lowest level of the side chambers was five cubits wide, the middle level was six cubits wide, and the third level was seven cubits wide, for he made offsets * all around the house, so that nothing was attached to the walls of the house. + 7 The house was built with quarry stone that had already been prepared, + so that no hammers or axes or any iron tools were heard in the house while it was being built. 8 The entrance of the lowest side chamber was on the south * side of the house, + and a winding staircase led up to the middle floor, and from the middle floor up to the third floor. 9 He continued building the house and finished it + and covered the house with cedar beams and rows of cedar planks. + 10 He built the side chambers all around the house, + each five cubits high, and they were joined to the house by cedar timbers. 11 Meanwhile, the word of Jehovah came to Solʹo·mon, saying: 12 “As for this house that you are building, if you walk in my statutes and carry out my judgments and observe all my commandments by walking in them, + I will also carry out with you my promise that I made to David your father, + 13 and I will reside in the midst of the Israelites, + and I will not forsake my people Israel.” + 14 Solʹo·mon continued building the house to finish it. 15 He built the inside walls of the house with cedar boards. He paneled the inside walls with timber, from the floor of the house up to the rafters of the ceiling, and he overlaid the floor of the house with juniper boards. + 16 And he built a section of 20 cubits at the rear of the house with cedar boards, from the floor up to the rafters, and he built inside of it * the innermost room, + the Most Holy. + 17 And the temple * + —the part of the house in front of it—was 40 cubits. 18 The cedar inside the house was carved with gourds + and flowers in bloom. + All of it was cedar; no stone was seen. 19 And he prepared the innermost room + inside the house to put there the ark of the covenant of Jehovah. + 20 The innermost room was 20 cubits long, 20 cubits wide, and 20 cubits high; + and he overlaid it with pure gold; he overlaid the altar + with cedar. 21 Solʹo·mon overlaid the interior of the house with pure gold, + and he stretched gold chains in front of the innermost room, + which was overlaid with gold. 22 He overlaid the whole house with gold until all the house was completed; he also overlaid with gold the entire altar + near the innermost room. 23 In the innermost room he made two cherubs + of pinewood, * each ten cubits high. + 24 One wing of the cherub measured five cubits, and the other wing was five cubits. From the tip of one wing to the tip of the other wing was ten cubits. 25 The second cherub was also ten cubits. The two cherubs had the same size and shape. 26 The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, as was that of the other cherub. 27 Then he put the cherubs + inside the inner house. * The wings of the cherubs were extended so that the wing of the one cherub reached to one wall and the wing of the other cherub reached to the other wall, and their wings extended toward the middle of the house, so that the wings touched. 28 And he overlaid the cherubs with gold. 29 And on all the walls of the house all around both the inner and outer rooms, * he carved figures of cherubs, + palm trees, + and flowers in bloom. + 30 He overlaid the floor of the house with gold in the inner and outer rooms. 31 And for the entrance of the innermost room he made doors of pinewood, side pillars, and doorposts, as a fifth part. * 32 The two doors were of pinewood, and he carved on them cherubs, palm trees, and flowers in bloom, and he overlaid them with gold; and he hammered the gold down over the cherubs and the palm trees. 33 For the entrance of the temple, * that was how he made the doorposts of pinewood, belonging to a fourth part. * 34 And he made two doors of juniper wood. The one door had two leaves that turned on pivots, and the other door had two leaves that turned on pivots. + 35 He carved cherubs, palm trees, and flowers in bloom, and overlaid gold foil on the carvings. 36 He built the inner courtyard + with three rows of hewn stone and a row of cedar beams. + 37 In the 4th year, in the month of Ziv, * the house of Jehovah had its foundation laid; + 38 and in the 11th year, in the month of Bul * (that is, the eighth month), the house was finished in all its details and according to its plan. + So he spent seven years building it. Footnotes ^ See App. B8 . ^ See App. B15 . ^ Lit., “sons of Israel.” ^ A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See App. B14 . ^ Lit., “temple of the house.” ^ Or “wide.” ^ Or “20 cubits extending across the width of the house.” ^ Or “beveled (splayed) windows.” ^ Here referring to the Holy. ^ Or “recesses.” ^ Lit., “right.” ^ That is, inside the house. ^ That is, the Holy, which was in front of the Most Holy. ^ Lit., “oil wood,” possibly the Aleppo pine. ^ That is, the Most Holy. ^ Lit., “inside and outside.” ^ Perhaps referring to the construction of the doorframe or to the size of the doors. ^ Here referring to the Holy. ^ Perhaps referring to the construction of the doorframe or to the size of the doors. ^ See App. B15 . ^ See App. B15 . Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (2013 REVISION) 1 Kings 6 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001061103/univ/art/1001061103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwt p. 40 Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) PDF EPUB JWPUB Screen Reader (RTF) Notetaker (BRL) DAISY Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar 1 Kings OUTLINE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22