The Second to the Corinthians 8:1-24 8 Now we want you to know, brothers, about the undeserved kindness of God that has been granted to the congregations of Mac·e·doʹni·a. + 2 During a great test under affliction, their abundance of joy and their deep poverty made the riches of their generosity abound. 3 For it was according to their means, + yes, I testify, it was even beyond their means, + 4 while they on their own initiative kept earnestly begging us for the privilege of kindly giving, to have a share in the relief ministry for the holy ones. + 5 And not merely as we had hoped, but first they gave themselves to the Lord and to us through God’s will. 6 So we encouraged Titus that, just as he had initiated this work among you, + he should also complete this same kind giving on your part. 7 Nevertheless, just as you abound in everything, in faith and word and knowledge and all earnestness and in our love for you, may you also abound in this kind giving. + 8 I am saying this, not to command you, but to make you aware of the earnestness of others and to test the genuineness of your love. 9 For you know the undeserved kindness of our Lord Jesus Christ, that although he was rich, he became poor for your sake, + so that you might become rich through his poverty. 10 And in this I give my opinion: + This is for your benefit, seeing that already a year ago you not only initiated the action but also showed your desire to do it. + 11 So now, also complete what you started to do, so that your readiness to act may be completed according to the means you have available. 12 For if the readiness is there first, it is especially acceptable according to what a person has, + not according to what a person does not have. 13 For I do not want to make it easy for others, but difficult for you; 14 but that by means of an equalizing, your surplus at the present time might offset their need, so that their surplus might also offset your deficiency, that there may be an equalizing. 15 Just as it is written: “The person with much did not have too much, and the person with little did not have too little.” + 16 Now thanks be to God for putting the same earnest concern for you in the heart of Titus, + 17 because he has indeed responded to the encouragement, but being very eager, he is coming to you on his own initiative. 18 But we are sending along with him the brother whose praise in connection with the good news has spread through all the congregations. 19 Not only that, but he was also appointed by the congregations to be our traveling companion as we administer this kind gift for the glory of the Lord and in proof of our readiness to assist. 20 Thus we are avoiding having any man find fault with us in connection with this liberal contribution that we are administering. + 21 For we ‘care for everything honestly, not only in the sight of Jehovah but also in the sight of men.’ + 22 Moreover, we are sending with them our brother whom we have often tested and found to be diligent in many matters, but now much more diligent on account of his great confidence in you. 23 If, though, there is any question about Titus, he is my companion * and a fellow worker for your interests; or if there are questions about our brothers, they are apostles of congregations and a glory of Christ. 24 So demonstrate the proof of your love to them, + and show the congregations why we boasted about you. Footnotes ^ Lit., “sharer.” Study Notes made the riches of their generosity abound: Or “made . . . overflow.” Paul seeks to motivate the Christians in Corinth to complete the relief ministry for the needy Christians in Judea. So he tells them about “the congregations of Macedonia,” such as those in Philippi and Thessalonica, that were outstanding examples of generous giving. ( 2Co 8:1-4; 9:1-7; Ro 15:26; Php 4:14-16 ) Their cheerful generosity was all the more remarkable, since they themselves were in “deep poverty” and were experiencing a great test under affliction. It is possible that those Christians in Macedonia were being accused of practicing customs considered unlawful for Romans, as happened to Paul himself in Philippi. ( Ac 16:20, 21 ) Some suggest that the test was connected with their poverty. Such tests, or trials, might explain why the Macedonians felt empathy for their Judean brothers, who were suffering similar hardships. ( Ac 17:5-9; 1Th 2:14 ) Therefore, the Macedonian Christians wanted to help them and joyfully gave “beyond their means.”​— 2Co 8:3 . have a share in the relief ministry: Paul uses the Greek noun di·a·ko·niʹa, here rendered “relief ministry.” The word is often used in the Bible to describe humble services performed out of love for others. It is significant that this Greek noun is used for the twofold ministry in which Christians share, the preaching work and the relief work. (See study note on Ac 11:29 .) In this verse, Paul refers specifically to bringing relief to fellow Christians who are struck by hardship. ( 2Co 9:13 ; see study note on Ro 15:31 .) The Macedonian congregations considered it a privilege to share in this relief work. Both aspects of the Christian ministry constitute “sacred service.”​— Ro 12:1, 6-8 . that although he was rich, he became poor for your sake: To motivate the Corinthians to help those in need, Paul has them contemplate Jesus’ example of self-sacrifice and generosity. Before Jesus came to earth as a man, he was rich in a special sense; he was especially favored and blessed by his Father. ( Joh 1:14; Eph 3:8 ) Yet, he willingly relinquished his favored position. ( Joh 1:18; Php 2:5-8 ) He left his heavenly home to live among imperfect humans who coped daily with poverty, sickness, and death. Additionally, Jesus was born to the wife of a poor carpenter. (See study note on Lu 2:24 .) As a man, Jesus led a simple life. ( Mt 8:20 ) Yet, he redeemed the human race. Because of Jesus’ generosity, the Christians in Corinth had become rich in spiritual blessings, including the prospect of a heavenly inheritance. Paul thus urges them to imitate Jesus’ spirit of giving. an equalizing: In this context, Paul gives instructions regarding a collection for the needy “holy ones” in Jerusalem and Judea. ( 2Co 8:4; 9:1 ) He highlights that the Christians in Corinth, who were better off financially, could contribute from their surplus to offset the material need of their brothers in Judea. Such generosity would result in “an equalizing,” or balancing out, of resources. No one was pressured to give more than he could afford.​— 2Co 8:12, 13; 9:7 ; see the study note on 2Co 8:15 . Just as it is written: As a Scriptural basis for the principle of “equalizing,” Paul quotes from Ex 16:18 , referring to Jehovah’s loving arrangement of providing manna for the Israelites during their wilderness journey. ( 2Co 8:14 ; see Glossary, “ Manna .”) An Israelite family head either gathered or supervised the gathering of manna for the entire household. Since the manna melted when the sun got hot, he doubtless quickly gathered the approximate supply needed for the household and measured it afterward. He gathered little or much according to the size of the household; yet, the amount collected always proved to be one omer measure (2.2 L; 2 dry qt) per person. ( Ex 16:16-18 ) Paul alluded to this when encouraging the Christians in Corinth to use their material surplus to offset the material need of their brothers in Judea.​—See study note on 2Co 8:14 . the brother: Paul refers to this unnamed brother by a Greek word rendered “traveling companion.” ( 2Co 8:19 ) This word is used in only one other place in the Christian Greek Scriptures , at Ac 19:29 , where it occurs in the plural form. There, Aristarchus is named as one of the traveling companions. Aristarchus became Paul’s close associate. Some scholars thus feel that “the brother” mentioned here might be Aristarchus, but there are also other possibilities, such as Tychicus.​— Ac 20:2-4; 27:2; Col 4:7, 10 . we ‘care for everything honestly’: Paul glorified his ministry by watching closely every feature of his life and conduct. ( 2Co 6:3 ) Paul knew that some who associated with the congregation in Corinth criticized and slandered him in order to belittle his authority as an apostle. Paul realized how dangerous such faultfinding could become if money was involved, so he assured the congregation that he was sending Titus and two other trustworthy brothers to handle the contributions. ( 2Co 8:20, 22 ) Paul wanted to act honestly not only in the sight of Jehovah but also in the sight of men. Paul here alludes to Pr 3:4 as the Scriptural basis for making such arrangements so that the contributed funds were handled in a way that was above suspicion. He uses wording that according to copies of the Septuagint available today reads: “Provide things honest in the sight of the Lord, and of men [or, people].”​—For the use of the divine name in this verse, see App. C3 introduction; 2Co 8:21 . our brother: To ensure that the contributed funds were handled in a way that was above suspicion, two reputable, duly appointed brothers were assigned to help Titus in completing the collection. ( 2Co 8:20, 21; 9:5 ) Paul did not name either of these brothers. (See study note on 2Co 8:18 .) So it is not known who this unnamed brother was, though some have suggested Trophimus and Tychicus as possibilities.​— Ac 20:4 . apostles of congregations: Paul uses the Greek word for “apostle” ( a·poʹsto·los ) in its general sense, which can mean “sent one” or “envoy.” (See study note on Joh 13:16 .) The brothers he mentions were sent out as representatives of their respective congregations. Similarly, Paul used the Greek word a·poʹsto·los when speaking about Epaphroditus as an “envoy.” ( Php 2:25 ) Such faithful men were not apostles in the sense of being appointed to serve as one of the Twelve, as Matthias was; nor were they apostles in the sense of being chosen by Christ to serve as apostles to the nations, as Paul was.​—See study note on Ac 1:26 ; see also Ac 9:15; Ro 11:13 . Media Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) 2 Corinthians 8 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS