To the Ephesians 2:1-22 2 Furthermore, God made you alive, though you were dead in your trespasses and sins, + 2 in which you at one time walked according to the system of things * of this world, + according to the ruler of the authority of the air, + the spirit + that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. 3 Yes, among them we all at one time conducted ourselves in harmony with the desires of our flesh, + carrying out the will of the flesh and of our thoughts, + and we were naturally children of wrath + just as the rest. 4 But God, being rich in mercy, + because of his great love with which he loved us, + 5 made us alive together with the Christ, even when we were dead in trespasses + —by undeserved kindness you have been saved. 6 Moreover, he raised us up together and seated us together in the heavenly places in union with Christ Jesus, + 7 so that in the coming systems of things he might demonstrate the surpassing riches of his undeserved kindness in his graciousness toward us in union with Christ Jesus. 8 By this undeserved kindness you have been saved through faith, + and this is not of your own doing; rather, it is God’s gift. + 9 No, it is not a result of works, + so that no one should have grounds for boasting. 10 We are God’s handiwork and were created + in union with Christ Jesus + for good works, which God determined in advance for us to walk in them. 11 Therefore, remember that at one time you, people of the nations by fleshly descent, were the ones called “uncircumcision” by those called “circumcision,” which is made in the flesh by human hands. 12 At that time you were without Christ, alienated from the state of Israel, strangers to the covenants of the promise; + you had no hope and were without God in the world. + 13 But now in union with Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have come to be near by the blood of the Christ. 14 For he is our peace, + the one who made the two groups one + and destroyed the wall in between that fenced them off. + 15 By means of his flesh he abolished the enmity, the Law of commandments consisting in decrees, in order to make the two groups in union with himself into one new man + and to make peace, 16 and to reconcile fully both peoples in one body to God through the torture stake, + because he had killed off the enmity + by means of himself. 17 And he came and declared the good news of peace + to you who were far off, and peace to those near, 18 because through him we, both peoples, have free access to the Father by one spirit. + 19 So you are no longer strangers and foreigners, + but you are fellow citizens + of the holy ones and are members of the household of God, + 20 and you have been built up on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, + while Christ Jesus himself is the foundation cornerstone. + 21 In union with him the whole building, being harmoniously joined together, + is growing into a holy temple for Jehovah. + 22 In union with him you too are being built up together into a place for God to inhabit by spirit. + Footnotes ^ Or “the course; the ways; the customs.” Study Notes dead in your trespasses and sins: In the Bible, death and life can be used in a figurative, or a spiritual, sense. Paul says that the former course of the Ephesian Christians made them “dead in [their] trespasses and sins.” One lexicon describes the figurative use of the Greek word for “dead” in this verse as a person’s “being so morally or spiritually deficient as to be in effect dead.” However, Paul shows that Jehovah could now view those spirit-anointed Christians as being alive, since they had repented of their sinful way of life on the basis of Jesus’ sacrifice.​— Eph 2:5; Col 2:13 ; see study notes on Lu 9:60; Joh 5:24, 25 . the system of things of this world: The Greek word here rendered “system of things” basically means “age.” It often denotes the current state of affairs or features that distinguish a certain period of time. The Greek word for “world” ( koʹsmos ) here refers to the unrighteous human society alienated from God. In this verse, where these two terms are combined, the whole expression could be rendered “the course [or, “customs; ways”] of this world,” referring to the behavior and standards of people alienated from God. Paul makes the point that the Christians in Ephesus had once led, or walked according to, an unrighteous way of life. the ruler of the authority of the air: Satan the Devil is the “ruler” referred to here. Paul uses the literal air, or atmosphere, to illustrate how the spirit, or dominant attitude, of selfishness and disobedience permeates the world today. Paul uses similar language at 1Co 2:12 in referring to “the spirit of the world.” Just as literal air is everywhere, ready to be breathed in, so “the spirit of the world” is always present. It exerts “authority,” or power, over most of mankind. The power of this dominant mental attitude lies in its appeal to the sinful flesh, its subtlety, its relentlessness and, like air, its pervasiveness. Those who are alienated from God and who pursue a course contrary to God’s will are here called “the sons of disobedience.” the sons of disobedience: See study note on Ac 4:36 . we were naturally children of wrath: Adam willfully disobeyed God, bringing sin and death to all his descendants. ( Ro 5:12, 19 ) This inherited imperfection made them “naturally,” or by nature, “children of wrath,” who merit God’s disfavor and who deserve death. ( De 32:5; Ro 2:5; 3:10; Eph 5:6; Col 1:21; 3:6 ) However, they are no longer “children of wrath” because they resist their inherent, sinful inclination and accept the merciful provision of becoming reconciled to him. ( Joh 3:36 ) “Because of his great love,” God provided “the ransom paid by Christ Jesus.”​— Eph 2:4, 5; Ro 3:23, 24 . in the heavenly places: Though Paul uses this expression at Eph 1:20 to refer to God’s dwelling place in heaven, here he speaks of spirit-anointed Christians as already raised up and seated “together in the heavenly places” while they are still on earth. As at Eph 1:3 , that is because God “assigned [them] as heirs” with his Son in the heavenly inheritance and gave them a token of that inheritance. ( Eph 1:11, 13, 14 ) They were thereby brought forth, or born again, and became Jehovah’s spirit-anointed sons ( Joh 1:12, 13; 3:5-7 ), which also made them Jesus’ brothers ( Ro 8:15; Eph 1:5 ) and “joint heirs with Christ.”​— Ro 8:17; Eph 1:11 ; see study note on Eph 1:3 . the coming systems of things: Or “the coming ages.” Here the plural form of the Greek word ai·onʹ, often rendered “system of things,” is used. In this context, it refers to the future time when anointed Christians will reign with Christ Jesus and experience God’s undeserved kindness. (Compare Eph 1:18-23; Heb 6:4, 5 .) The expression “the coming systems of things” is plural. This indicates that there will be systems of things, or ages with certain characteristics, within the overall “coming system of things.” (See study notes on Mr 10:30; 1Co 10:11 .) It could be compared with the Jewish system of things under the Law covenant, which embraced several systems that were interrelated and contemporaneous.​—See Glossary, “ System(s) of things .” graciousness: Or “favor; generosity.” The Greek word used here is also rendered “kindness.”​— Ro 2:4; 11:22 . We are God’s handiwork: Or “We are a product of His work.” God brought forth spirit-anointed Christians as “a new creation” in union with Christ Jesus. (See study notes on 2Co 5:17; Ga 6:15 .) The Greek word here rendered “handiwork” is used of the physical creation at Ro 1:20 , where it is translated “the things made.” The expression may convey the idea of the work of a skilled craftsman. the ones called “uncircumcision”: That is, non-Jews. those called “circumcision”: That is, Jews.​—See study note on Ro 2:25 . alienated from the state of Israel: Before coming to know God’s purposes, some Ephesian Christians had been uncircumcised “people of the nations.” ( Eph 2:11 ) As such, they were alienated from the nation that had a special relationship with God. ( Ex 19:5, 6; 1Ki 8:53 ) The non-Israelite nations had neither a knowledge of God’s dealings nor an approved standing with him. you had no hope and were without God: The Gentile Christians, like the Jews, were sinners who descended from sinful Adam. However, Christ Jesus’ sacrifice opened the way for those of the non-Jewish nations to have a close relationship with God and the sure hope of everlasting life.​— Eph 1:7; 2:13 . the two groups: That is, Jews and non-Jews.​— Eph 2:11 . the wall in between: Lit., “the middle wall.” This is likely an allusion to the wall in the first-century temple in Jerusalem that “fenced . . . off,” or prevented, the Gentile worshippers from entering the inner courtyards. These courtyards were open only to Jews. According to the Mishnah , that wall was a latticed barrier called the Soreg. (See App. B11 .) Josephus wrote that the wall was three cubits (1.3 m; 4.3 ft) high and that it carried signs in Greek and Latin warning non-Jews not to pass beyond it under penalty of death. When Paul wrote this letter, he was in prison because he was accused of taking a non-Jew from Ephesus beyond this wall. So the Ephesians may have been acquainted with it. ( Ac 21:28-31; 28:30, 31; Eph 3:1 ) The literal wall in Jerusalem was still standing. So when Paul spoke of “the wall” being destroyed, he was referring, not to the literal wall, but to the Law covenant, which divided Jews from Gentiles. That symbolic wall was abolished some 30 years earlier on the basis of Christ’s death. through the torture stake: Here the term “torture stake” (Greek, stau·rosʹ ) is used to represent Jesus’ death on the execution stake. Jesus’ death was the basis for removing the Law, which was a barrier that separated the Jews from the non-Jews. Therefore, by accepting the reconciliation made possible by Jesus’ death, both peoples, Jews and non-Jews, could become “one body . . . through the torture stake.”​—See also Col 1:20 and Glossary, “ Stake ”; “ Torture stake .” himself: Or possibly, “it,” that is, the torture stake.​— Col 1:20; 2:13, 14 . by one spirit: That is, by means of God’s holy spirit. you are fellow citizens of the holy ones: Paul assured Gentile Christians in Ephesus that their spiritual status had changed. They were no longer strangers and foreigners with limited rights. Rather, they had become “fellow citizens of the holy ones” with common aims, obligations, and identities. They were now part of a new spiritual nation and had the same citizenship as the other holy ones. (See Php 3:20 and study note .) Christ destroyed the wall, “the Law of commandments,” that had fenced off Gentiles from Jews, giving both peoples free access to the Father through Christ.​— Eph 2:14-18 ; see study note on Eph 2:14 . members of the household of God: Paul uses the expression “members of the household” to illustrate how the anointed members of the Christian congregation were organized as a close family unit. ( 1Ti 3:15 ) In a godly household, members of the family show respect for the family head as well as for the arrangements and standards that he sets for the household. Similarly, the members of the first-century congregations felt a close spiritual kinship with one another and respected Jehovah’s arrangements regarding the congregation.​—See study note on Ga 6:10 . the foundation cornerstone: This expression occurs only twice in the Christian Greek Scriptures , here and at 1Pe 2:6 . Jesus is “the foundation cornerstone” of the Christian congregation, which Paul likens to a building. ( Eph 2:21 ) The Greek term rendered “foundation cornerstone” occurs once in the Septuagint , in the Messianic prophecy at Isa 28:16 . There Jehovah foretold that he would lay “as a foundation in Zion a tested stone, the precious cornerstone of a sure foundation.” Peter quotes from this prophecy and applies the expression to Jesus. ( 1Pe 2:4-6 ) The foundation cornerstone in public buildings and city walls was placed where two walls met. It bound together the other stones. For the building to be properly constructed, all the stones had to conform to the cornerstone. being harmoniously joined together: This expression emphasizes the need for unity in the Christian congregation. (See “ Introduction to Ephesians .”) Both Jewish and Gentile believers could unitedly approach Jehovah; all of them could have holy spirit; and together they were part of a spiritual temple, “a place for God to inhabit by spirit.”​— Eph 2:22 ; see Eph 4:16 , where Paul uses the same expression (“harmoniously joined together”) when he likens the Christian congregation to a human body. a holy temple for Jehovah: The Christian congregation is considered a house or a temple built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, with Christ Jesus as the foundation cornerstone. ( Eph 2:20 ) At Eph 2:19, 22 , this congregation is described as “the household of God” and “a place for God to inhabit by spirit.” Paul uses similar wording in his letters to the Corinthians.​— 2Co 6:16 ; see study notes on 1Co 3:16; 6:19; for the use of the divine name in this verse, see App. C3 introduction; Eph 2:21 . Media “The Wall in Between” When the apostle Paul wrote to Christians in Ephesus about unity in the congregation, he compared the Mosaic Law to a wall that divided Jews and Gentiles. ( Eph 2:14 ) Paul may have been alluding to the wall that surrounded the inner courtyards of the first-century temple in Jerusalem. This low wall, called the Soreg, marked the boundary that Gentiles could not cross on pain of death. On one occasion, Paul was mobbed in the temple because the Jews wrongly accused him of bringing Gentiles into the area fenced off by this wall. ( Ac 21:26-31 ) To understand what Paul may have had in mind when he wrote about “the wall in between,” watch this video. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Ephesians 2 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS