According to Luke 11:1-54 11 Now he was in a certain place praying, and when he stopped, one of his disciples said to him: “Lord, teach us how to pray, just as John also taught his disciples.” 2 So he said to them: “Whenever you pray, say: ‘Father, let your name be sanctified. + Let your Kingdom come. + 3 Give us each day our bread according to our daily needs. + 4 And forgive us our sins, + for we ourselves also forgive everyone who is in debt to us; + and do not bring us into temptation.’” + 5 Then he said to them: “Suppose one of you has a friend and you go to him at midnight and say to him, ‘Friend, lend me three loaves, 6 because one of my friends has just come to me on a journey and I have nothing to offer him.’ 7 But that one replies from inside: ‘Stop bothering me. The door is already locked, and my young children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything.’ 8 I tell you, even if he will not get up and give him anything because of being his friend, certainly because of his bold persistence + he will get up and give him whatever he needs. 9 So I say to you, keep on asking, + and it will be given you; keep on seeking, and you will find; keep on knocking, and it will be opened to you. + 10 For everyone asking receives, + and everyone seeking finds, and to everyone knocking, it will be opened. 11 Indeed, which father among you, if his son asks for a fish, will hand him a serpent instead of a fish? + 12 Or if he also asks for an egg, will hand him a scorpion? 13 Therefore, if you, although being wicked, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more so will the Father in heaven give holy spirit to those asking him!” + 14 Later he expelled a speechless demon. + After the demon came out, the speechless man spoke, and the crowds were amazed. + 15 But some of them said: “He expels the demons by means of Be·elʹze·bub, the ruler of the demons.” + 16 And others, to test him, began demanding a sign + out of heaven from him. 17 Knowing their thinking, + he said to them: “Every kingdom divided against itself comes to ruin, and a house divided against itself falls. 18 In the same way, if Satan is also divided against himself, how will his kingdom stand? For you say I expel the demons by means of Be·elʹze·bub. 19 If I expel the demons by means of Be·elʹze·bub, by whom do your sons expel them? This is why they will be your judges. 20 But if it is by means of God’s finger + that I expel the demons, the Kingdom of God has really overtaken you. * + 21 When a strong, well-armed man guards his palace, his belongings remain secure. 22 But when someone stronger than he is comes against him and conquers him, that man takes away all his weapons in which he was trusting, and he divides up the things he took from him. 23 Whoever is not on my side is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. + 24 “When an unclean spirit comes out of a man, it passes through waterless places in search of a resting-place, and after finding none, it says, ‘I will return to my house from which I moved.’ + 25 And on arriving, it finds the house swept clean and adorned. 26 Then it goes and takes along seven other spirits more wicked than itself, and after getting inside, they dwell there. So the final circumstances of that man become worse than the first.” + 27 Now as he was saying these things, a woman from the crowd called out to him: “Happy is the womb that carried you and the breasts that nursed you!” + 28 But he said: “No, rather, happy are those hearing the word of God and keeping it!” + 29 When the crowds were massing together, he began to say: “This generation is a wicked generation; it looks for a sign, * but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Joʹnah. + 30 For just as Joʹnah + became a sign to the Ninʹe·vites, so will the Son of man be to this generation. 31 The queen of the south + will be raised up in the judgment with the men of this generation and will condemn them, for she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solʹo·mon. But look! something more than Solʹo·mon is here. + 32 The men of Ninʹe·veh will rise in the judgment with this generation and will condemn it, because they repented at what Joʹnah preached. + But look! something more than Joʹnah is here. 33 After lighting a lamp, a person puts it, not in a hidden place nor under a basket, but on the lampstand, + so that those who come in may see the light. 34 The lamp of the body is your eye. When your eye is focused, your whole body is also bright; * + but when it is envious, your body is also dark. + 35 Be alert, therefore, that the light that is in you is not darkness. 36 Therefore, if your whole body is bright with no part of it dark, it will all be as bright as when a lamp gives you light by its rays.” 37 When he had said this, a Pharisee asked him to dine with him. So he went in and reclined at the table. 38 However, the Pharisee was surprised at seeing that he did not first wash before the dinner. + 39 But the Lord said to him: “Now you Pharisees, you cleanse the outside of the cup and dish, but inside you are full of greediness * and wickedness. + 40 Unreasonable ones! The one who made the outside made also the inside, did he not? 41 But give as gifts of mercy the things that are from within, and look! everything about you will be clean. * + 42 But woe to you Pharisees, because you give the tenth of the mint and of the rue and of every other * garden herb, * + but you disregard the justice * and the love of God! These things you were under obligation to do, but not to disregard those other things. + 43 Woe to you Pharisees, because you love the front seats in the synagogues and the greetings in the marketplaces! + 44 Woe to you, because you are as those graves * that are not clearly visible, + that men walk on and do not know it!” 45 In reply one of those versed in the Law said to him: “Teacher, in saying these things, you insult us also.” 46 Then he said: “Woe also to you who are versed in the Law, because you load men down with loads hard to carry, but you yourselves do not touch the loads with one of your fingers! + 47 “Woe to you, because you build the tombs * of the prophets, but your forefathers killed them! + 48 Certainly you are witnesses of the deeds of your forefathers, and yet you approve of them, for they killed the prophets + but you are building their tombs. 49 That is why the wisdom of God also said: ‘I will send prophets and apostles to them, and they will kill and persecute some of them, + 50 so that the blood of all the prophets spilled from the founding of the world may be charged against * this generation, + 51 from the blood of Abel + down to the blood of Zech·a·riʹah, who was killed between the altar and the house.’ + Yes, I tell you, it will be charged against * this generation. 52 “Woe to you who are versed in the Law, because you took away the key of knowledge. You yourselves did not go in, and you hinder those going in!” + 53 So when he went out from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began to put extreme pressure on him and to ply him with many more questions, 54 lying in wait for him to catch him in something he might say. + Footnotes ^ Or “has already come to you; has caught you unawares.” ^ Or “miraculous proof.” ^ Or “full of light.” ^ Or “plunder; robbery.” ^ Or possibly, “everything will be clean for you.” ^ Or “all other kinds of.” ^ Or possibly, “vegetable.” ^ Or “righteous judgment.” ^ Or “memorial tombs.” ^ Or “memorial tombs.” ^ Or “required from.” ^ Or “required from.” Study Notes Lord, teach us how to pray: Only Luke mentions the disciple’s request. This discussion on prayer occurred approximately 18 months after Jesus gave the Sermon on the Mount, in which he taught his disciples the model prayer. ( Mt 6:9-13 ) Possibly this particular disciple was not present at that time, so Jesus kindly repeated the essential points of that model prayer. Prayer was a regular part of Jewish life and worship, and the Hebrew Scriptures contain numerous prayers in the book of Psalms and elsewhere. Therefore, it seems that the disciple was not asking to be taught something that he knew nothing about or that he had never done. Doubtless, he was also familiar with the formalistic prayers of the religious leaders of Judaism. But he had likely observed Jesus praying and sensed that there was a big difference between the sanctimonious prayers of the rabbis and the way Jesus prayed.​— Mt 6:5-8 . Whenever you pray, say: The prayer that follows in verses 2b-4 reflects the substance of the model prayer that Jesus taught about 18 months earlier in the Sermon on the Mount. ( Mt 6:9b-13 ). It is worth noting that he did not repeat the prayer word for word, indicating that he was not giving a liturgical prayer to be recited by rote. Also, later prayers by Jesus and his disciples did not rigidly adhere to the specific words or formula used in this model prayer. name: See study note on Mt 6:9 . be sanctified: See study note on Mt 6:9 . Let your Kingdom come: See study note on Mt 6:10 . our bread according to our daily needs: In many contexts, the Hebrew and Greek words for “bread” simply mean “food.” ( Ge 3:19 ; ftn.) Jesus thus indicates that those who serve God can confidently ask him to supply them, not with an excessive amount of provisions, but with adequate food for each day. Jesus’ statement may have reminded his disciples of God’s command to the Israelites to gather the miraculously provided manna, each one “his amount day by day.” ( Ex 16:4 ) The wording of the petition here is similar, but not identical, to what Jesus taught the disciples approximately 18 months earlier in the Sermon on the Mount. ( Mt 6:9b-13 ) This indicates that Jesus did not intend for this prayer to be recited word for word. ( Mt 6:7 ) When Jesus repeated important teachings​—as he did here on the subject of prayer​—he did this in a way that would benefit those who had not been present on other occasions. He would remind those who had been present of the key points. who is in debt to us: Or “who sins against us.” When sinning against someone, a person incurs a figurative debt to that one, or has an obligation to him, and must therefore seek his forgiveness. In the model prayer that Jesus taught in the Sermon on the Mount, he used the term “debts” instead of sins. (See study note on Mt 6:12 .) The Greek word for forgive literally means “to let go,” that is, to let go of a debt by not demanding its repayment. do not bring us into temptation: See study note on Mt 6:13 . Friend, lend me three loaves: In Middle Eastern culture, hospitality is a duty in which people love to excel, as reflected in this illustration. Even though the guest arrived unexpectedly at midnight, a detail that may reflect the uncertainties of travel at that time, the host felt strongly compelled to give him something to eat. He even felt obligated to disturb his neighbor at that hour to borrow food. Stop bothering me: The neighbor in this illustration was reluctant to help, not because he was unfriendly, but because he had already gone to bed. Homes in those days, especially those of the poor, often consisted of only one large room. If the man of the house were to get up, he would likely disturb the whole family, including sleeping children. bold persistence: The Greek word used here can literally be rendered “lack of modesty” or “shamelessness.” However, in this context, it denotes a persistent boldness or insistence. The man in Jesus’ illustration does not feel ashamed or hold back from asking persistently for what he needs, and Jesus tells his disciples that their prayers should likewise be persistent.​— Lu 11:9, 10 . keep on asking, . . . seeking, . . . knocking: See study note on Mt 7:7 . you, although being wicked: See study note on Mt 7:11 . how much more so: See study note on Mt 7:11 . Beelzebub: Possibly an alteration of Baal-zebub, meaning “Owner (Lord) of the Flies,” the Baal worshipped by the Philistines at Ekron. ( 2Ki 1:3 ) Some Greek manuscripts use the alternate forms Beelzeboul or Beezeboul, possibly meaning “Owner (Lord) of the Lofty Abode (Habitation)” or if a play on the non-Biblical Hebrew word zeʹvel (dung), “Owner (Lord) of the Dung.” As shown at Lu 11:18 , “Beelzebub” is a designation applied to Satan​—the prince, or ruler, of the demons. house: See study note on Mr 3:25 . God’s finger: That is, God’s holy spirit, as shown by Matthew’s account of an earlier, similar conversation. Here in Luke’s account, Jesus refers to expelling demons “by means of God’s finger,” whereas Matthew’s account refers to Jesus’ doing it “by means of God’s spirit,” or active force.​— Mt 12:28 . swept clean: Some manuscripts read: “unoccupied, swept clean,” but the current main text reading has strong support in early authoritative manuscripts. Since the Greek word for “unoccupied” occurs at Mt 12:44 , where Jesus makes a similar statement, some scholars are of the opinion that it may have been added to Luke’s account by copyists to harmonize with Matthew’s account. the sign of Jonah: On an earlier occasion, Jesus used the expression “the sign of Jonah” and explained it as referring to his death and resurrection. ( Mt 12:39, 40 ) Jonah had compared his deliverance from the belly of the fish after “three days and three nights” to being raised from the Grave. ( Jon 1:17–2:2 ) Jesus’ resurrection from the literal grave was to be just as real as Jonah’s deliverance from the belly of the fish. However, even when Jesus was resurrected after having been dead for parts of three days, his hard-hearted critics still refused to exercise faith in him. Jonah also served as a sign by means of his bold preaching, which moved the Ninevites to repent.​— Mt 12:41; Lu 11:32 . queen of the south: See study note on Mt 12:42 . look!: See study note on Mt 1:20 . a lamp: See study note on Mt 5:15 . a basket: See study note on Mt 5:15 . lamp of the body is your eye: See study note on Mt 6:22 . focused: See study note on Mt 6:22 . envious: See study note on Mt 6:23 . wash: That is, ceremonially cleanse himself. The Greek word ba·ptiʹzo (to dip; to immerse), a term that most often describes Christian baptism, is here used for a broad range of repeated ritual washings rooted in Jewish tradition.​—See study note on Mr 7:4 . gifts of mercy: See study note on Mt 6:2 . the things that are from within: In view of his emphasis on justice and love in the following verse ( Lu 11:42 ), Jesus may here have been referring to qualities of the heart. For a good deed to be an act of true mercy, it must be a gift that comes from inside​—from a loving and willing heart. tenth of the mint and of the rue and of every other garden herb: Under the Mosaic Law, the Israelites were to pay the tithe, or a tenth, of their crops. ( Le 27:30; De 14:22 ) Although the Law did not explicitly command that they give a tenth of herbs like mint and rue, Jesus did not contradict the tradition. Rather, he reproved the scribes and the Pharisees for focusing on minor details of the Law while failing to promote its underlying principles, such as justice and love for God. When Jesus on a later occasion makes a similar statement, recorded at Mt 23:23 , he mentions mint, dill, and cumin. front seats: See study note on Mt 23:6 . marketplaces: See study note on Mt 23:7 . graves that are not clearly visible: Or “unmarked graves.” In general, Jewish tombs do not appear to have been ornate or ostentatious. As shown in this verse, some were so inconspicuous that people might have walked on them and become ceremonially unclean without being aware of it. The Law of Moses considered unclean those who had touched anything belonging to the dead, so a person walking on such unseen graves would become ceremonially unclean for seven days. ( Nu 19:16 ) So that graves could be easily discovered and avoided, the Jews had them whitewashed each year. In this context, Jesus evidently meant that people who mixed freely with Pharisees, believing them to be good men, subconsciously became infected with their corrupt attitudes and unclean thinking.​—See study note on Mt 23:27 . the wisdom of God also said: Evidently meaning: “God in his wisdom also said.” On a different occasion, Jesus said: “I am sending to you prophets and wise men and public instructors.”​— Mt 23:34 . founding of the world: The Greek word for “founding” is rendered “to conceive” at Heb 11:11 , where it is used with “offspring.” Here used in the expression “founding of the world,” it apparently refers to the birth of children to Adam and Eve. Jesus associates “the founding of the world” with Abel, evidently the first redeemable human of the world of mankind whose name had been written in the scroll of life “from the founding of the world.”​— Lu 11:51; Re 17:8 ; see study note on Mt 25:34 . from the blood of Abel down to the blood of Zechariah: See study note on Mt 23:35 . between the altar and the house: The “house,” or temple, refers to the building that accommodated the Holy and the Most Holy. According to 2Ch 24:21 , Zechariah was murdered “in the courtyard of Jehovah’s house.” The altar of burnt offering was in the inner courtyard, outside of and in front of the entrance to the temple sanctuary. (See App. B8 .) This would correspond to the location that Jesus mentioned for the incident. the key of knowledge: In the Bible, those who were given certain keys, whether literal or figurative, were entrusted with a degree of authority. ( 1Ch 9:26, 27; Isa 22:20-22 ) So the term “key” came to symbolize authority and responsibility. In this context, it seems that “knowledge” refers to divinely provided knowledge, since Jesus addresses religious leaders who were versed in the Law. They were supposed to use their authority and power to give the people accurate knowledge of God by explaining God’s word to them, unlocking its meaning. A comparison of this text with Mt 23:13 , where Jesus states that the religious leaders had “shut up the Kingdom of the heavens before men,” indicates that the expression go in refers to gaining entrance into that Kingdom. By not giving the people the correct knowledge of God, the religious leaders took away the opportunity for many to understand God’s Word correctly and to enter into the Kingdom of God. began to put extreme pressure on him: This expression can refer to physically crowding around someone, but here it seems to describe the hostility of the religious leaders as they use intense pressure to try to intimidate Jesus. The Greek verb used here is rendered “nursing a grudge” at Mr 6:19 , where it describes Herodias’ relentless hatred for John the Baptist. Media Scorpions Of the over 600 varieties of scorpions, generally ranging in size from less than 2.5 cm (1 in.) to 20 cm (8 in.), about a dozen types have been encountered in Israel and Syria. Although the scorpion’s sting is usually not fatal to humans, there are several varieties with venom that is proportionately more potent than that of many dangerous desert vipers. Of the kinds found in Israel, the most poisonous is the yellow Leiurus quinquestriatus (shown here). The great pain caused by a scorpion’s sting is noted at Re 9:3, 5, 10 . Scorpions were common in the wilderness of Judea and on the Sinai Peninsula with its “fearsome wilderness.”— De 8:15 . Domestic Lampstand This domestic lampstand (1) is an artist’s concept based on first-century artifacts found in Ephesus and Italy. A lampstand of this kind was likely used in a wealthy household. In poorer homes, a lamp was hung from the ceiling, placed in a niche in the wall (2), or put on a stand made of earthenware or wood. Rue Rue is a perennial shrub with hairy stems and a strong scent. It attains a height of about 1 m (3 ft), has gray-green leaves, and bears clusters of yellow flowers. The variety of rue shown here ( Ruta chalepensis latifolia ) and a variety known as common rue ( Ruta graveolens ) both grow in Israel. During the days of Jesus’ earthly ministry, rue may have been cultivated for use in medicine and as a seasoning for food. In the Bible, this plant is mentioned only at Lu 11:42 , where Jesus condemned the scrupulous and hypocritical tithing by the Pharisees.—Compare Mt 23:23 . The Marketplace Some marketplaces, like the one depicted here, were located along a road. Vendors often placed so much merchandise in the street that it blocked traffic. Local residents could buy common household goods, pottery, and expensive glassware, as well as fresh produce. Because there was no refrigeration, people needed to visit the market each day to buy supplies. Here a shopper could hear news brought in by traders or other visitors, children could play, and the unemployed could wait to be hired. In the marketplace, Jesus healed the sick and Paul preached. ( Ac 17:17 ) By contrast, the proud scribes and Pharisees loved to be noticed and greeted in these public areas. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Luke 11 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS