According to Luke 21:1-38 21 Now as he looked up, he saw the rich dropping their gifts into the treasury chests. + 2 Then he saw a needy widow drop in two small coins of very little value, + 3 and he said: “Truly I say to you that this poor widow put in more than they all did. + 4 For all of these put in gifts * out of their surplus, but she, out of her want, * put in all the means of living she had.” + 5 Later, when some were speaking about the temple, how it was adorned with fine stones and dedicated things, + 6 he said: “As for these things that you now see, the days will come when not a stone will be left upon a stone and not be thrown down.” + 7 Then they questioned him, saying: “Teacher, when will these things actually be, and what will be the sign when these things are to occur?” + 8 He said: “Look out that you are not misled, + for many will come on the basis of my name, saying, ‘I am he,’ and, ‘The due time is near.’ Do not go after them. + 9 Furthermore, when you hear of wars and disturbances, * do not be terrified. For these things must take place first, but the end will not occur immediately.” + 10 Then he said to them: “Nation will rise against nation, + and kingdom against kingdom. + 11 There will be great earthquakes, and in one place after another food shortages and pestilences; + and there will be fearful sights and from heaven great signs. 12 “But before all these things happen, people will lay their hands on you and persecute you, + handing you over to the synagogues and prisons. You will be brought before kings and governors for the sake of my name. + 13 It will result in your giving a witness. 14 Therefore, resolve in your hearts not to rehearse beforehand how to make your defense, + 15 for I will give you words and wisdom that all your opposers together will not be able to resist or dispute. + 16 Moreover, you will be handed over * even by parents and brothers and relatives and friends, and they will put some of you to death, + 17 and you will be hated by all people because of my name. + 18 But not even a hair of your heads will perish. + 19 By your endurance you will preserve your lives. + 20 “However, when you see Jerusalem surrounded by encamped armies, + then know that the desolating of her has drawn near. + 21 Then let those in Ju·deʹa begin fleeing to the mountains, + let those in the midst of her leave, and let those in the countryside not enter into her, 22 because these are days for meting out justice in order that all the things written may be fulfilled. 23 Woe to the pregnant women and those nursing a baby in those days! + For there will be great distress on the land * and wrath against this people. 24 And they will fall by the edge of the sword and be led captive into all the nations; + and Jerusalem will be trampled on by the nations until the appointed times of the nations are fulfilled. + 25 “Also, there will be signs in the sun and moon and stars, + and on the earth anguish of nations not knowing the way out because of the roaring of the sea and its agitation. 26 People will become faint out of fear and expectation of the things coming upon the inhabited earth, for the powers of the heavens will be shaken. + 27 And then they will see the Son of man + coming in a cloud with power and great glory. + 28 But as these things start to occur, stand up straight and lift up your heads, because your deliverance is getting near.” 29 With that he told them an illustration: “Notice the fig tree and all the other trees. + 30 When they are budding, you see it for yourselves and know that now the summer is near. 31 Likewise also you, when you see these things happening, know that the Kingdom of God is near. 32 Truly I say to you that this generation will by no means pass away until all things happen. + 33 Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will by no means pass away. + 34 “But pay attention to yourselves that your hearts never become weighed down with overeating and heavy drinking + and anxieties of life, * + and suddenly that day be instantly upon you 35 as a snare. + For it will come upon all those dwelling on the face of the whole earth. 36 Keep awake, + then, all the time making supplication + that you may succeed in escaping all these things that must occur and in standing before the Son of man.” + 37 So by day he would be teaching in the temple, but by night he would go out and lodge on the mountain called the Mount of Olives. 38 And all the people would come to him early in the morning to hear him in the temple. Footnotes ^ Or “poverty.” ^ Or “contributed to the gifts.” ^ Or “disorders; uprisings.” ^ Or “betrayed.” ^ Lit., “earth.” ^ Or “anxieties over livelihood; worries of daily life.” Study Notes treasury chests: See study note on Mr 12:41 . needy: Or “poor.” The Greek word pe·ni·khrosʹ used here may denote a person who lacks the basic necessities of life or someone for whom life is a great struggle. In the Christian Greek Scriptures , it is used only here. two small coins of very little value: Lit., “two lepta,” the plural form of the Greek word le·ptonʹ, meaning “something small and thin.” A lepton was a coin that equaled 1/128 of a denarius and was evidently the smallest copper or bronze coin used in Israel.​—See Glossary, “ Lepton ,” and App. B14 . all the means of living she had: As shown in the study note on Lu 21:2 , the coins that the widow put in the treasury chest were “two lepta,” the equivalent of 1/64 of a day’s wage. The lepton was the smallest coin used in Israel at that time. According to Mt 10:29 , for an assarion coin (the equivalent of eight lepta), a person could purchase two sparrows, which were the cheapest birds used for food. So this widow had only half the amount needed to buy one sparrow, hardly enough for a single meal. not a stone will be left upon a stone: See study note on Mt 24:2 . I am he: See study note on Mr 13:6 . disturbances: Or “disorders; uprisings.” The Greek word a·ka·ta·sta·siʹa has the basic meaning of unruliness, but it could also refer to opposition to established authority; insurrection; political turmoil. At 2Co 6:5 , this term is rendered “riots” when describing the violent opposition faced by Paul. end: Or “complete end; final end.”​—See study note on Mt 24:6 . Nation: See study note on Mt 24:7 . rise: See study note on Mt 24:7 . pestilences: Or “widespread diseases; epidemics.” Of the three Gospel writers who recorded Jesus’ great prophecy about the time of the end, only Luke mentions this feature of the composite “sign.” ( Lu 21:7; Mt 24:3, 7; Mr 13:4, 8 ) The three accounts are complementary. The only other Biblical occurrence of the Greek word for “pestilence” is at Ac 24:5 , where it is used figuratively about a person who was perceived to be “a pest,” one who causes problems, a troublemaker or public menace. fearful sights: Derived from the Greek verb pho·beʹo, meaning “to fear,” this word appears only here in the Christian Greek Scriptures . It evidently refers to terrifying events. words: Or “forceful speech.” Lit., “a mouth.” Here the Greek word stoʹma is used synonymously for speech or the power of speech. not even a hair of your heads will perish: By using hyperbole , Jesus left no doubt that his followers would be protected despite being “hated by all people.” ( Lu 21:17 ) The context indicates that Jesus refers primarily to protection from spiritual or eternal harm rather than to protection from all physical harm. ( Lu 21:16 ) Therefore, Jesus’ disciples do not expect to be miraculously delivered from abuse or even death. But they can be confident in Jehovah’s power to resurrect them from the dead. ( Mt 10:39 ) The use of two Greek negatives with the verb in this verse emphatically expresses the certainty of Jesus’ promise. A similar meaning is conveyed by Jesus’ words to his disciples regarding God’s care for them: “Even the hairs of your head are all numbered.”​— Lu 12:7 ; see study note on Mt 10:30 . endurance: The Greek noun hy·po·mo·neʹ is used in the Scriptures to denote courageous, steadfast, or patient “endurance” that does not lose hope in the face of obstacles, persecutions, trials, or temptations. The related verb hy·po·meʹno, rendered “to endure,” literally means “to remain (stay) under.” It is often used in the sense of “remaining instead of fleeing; standing one’s ground; persevering; remaining steadfast.”​— Mt 10:22; Ro 12:12; Heb 10:32; Jas 5:11 . preserve your lives: Or “acquire (gain) your lives (souls).” The meaning of the Greek word psy·kheʹ, traditionally rendered “soul,” has to be determined by the context. (See Glossary, “ Soul .”) It often refers to a person’s life, present or future. In this context, it has been rendered “your future lives” or “your real life.” her: That is, the city of Jerusalem. In this context, the name Jerusalem in Greek is a feminine noun, though in some other contexts, it is neuter. Judea: That is, the Roman province of Judea. to the mountains: According to fourth-century historian Eusebius , Christians in Judea and Jerusalem fled across the Jordan River to Pella, a city in a mountainous region of the Decapolis.​—See App. B10 . her: That is, the city of Jerusalem.​—See study note on Lu 21:20 . days for meting out justice: Or “days of vengeance,” that is, divine vengeance and judgment. On an earlier occasion, in the synagogue of Nazareth, Jesus quoted part of Isaiah’s prophecy ( Isa 61:1, 2 ) and applied it to himself, but the record does not say that he quoted the part concerning “the day of vengeance of our God.” ( Lu 4:16-21 ) However, on this occasion, Jesus did proclaim “days of vengeance,” foretelling that Jerusalem would be surrounded by encamped armies. God’s vengeance was among the things written in the Hebrew Scriptures. The same Greek word here rendered “meting out justice” or “vengeance” occurs in the Septuagint at De 32:35; Jer 46:10 (26:10, LXX ); and Hos 9:7 . In these scriptures, the corresponding Hebrew terms are rendered “vengeance” or “reckoning.” appointed times of the nations: Or “times of the Gentiles.” The Greek word kai·rosʹ (here the plural form is rendered “appointed times”) may refer to a point of time or a fixed or definite period of time or a “season” marked by certain features. ( Mt 13:30; 21:34; Mr 11:13 ) It is used of “the appointed time” for Jesus’ ministry to begin ( Mr 1:15 ) and the “appointed time” of his death ( Mt 26:18 ). The term kai·rosʹ is also used with reference to future times or seasons within God’s arrangement or timetable, particularly in relation to Christ’s presence and his Kingdom. ( Ac 1:7; 3:19; 1Th 5:1 ) In view of how the word kai·rosʹ is used in the Bible text, the expression “appointed times of the nations” evidently refers, not to a vague or indefinite time, but to a fixed period of time, one having a beginning and an end. The term “nations” or “Gentiles” translates the plural form of the Greek word eʹthnos, which was often used by the Bible writers to refer specifically to the non-Jewish nations. the inhabited earth: The Greek word for “inhabited earth” ( oi·kou·meʹne ) refers to the earth as the dwelling place of mankind.​— Lu 4:5; Ac 17:31; Ro 10:18; Re 12:9; 16:14 . see: See study note on Mt 24:30 . Son of man: See study note on Mt 8:20 . in a cloud: See study note on Mt 24:30 . illustration: Or “parable; lesson.”​—See study note on Mt 13:3 . Heaven and earth will pass away: See study note on Mt 24:35 . my words will by no means pass away: See study note on Mt 24:35 . standing: In the Bible, this term is sometimes used to indicate that an individual or a group holds a favored or approved position with someone who has authority. ( Ps 1:5; 5:5; Pr 22:29; Lu 1:19 ) For example, at Re 7:9, 15 , a great crowd is shown to be “standing before the throne and before the Lamb,” indicating that they are favorably recognized by God and by Jesus. lodge on the mountain: During the last four days of his earthly life, Jesus was active during the daytime in Jerusalem. At night, he and his disciples would leave the city to lodge in the village of Bethany on the eastern slope of the Mount of Olives, doubtless at the home of Martha, Mary, and Lazarus.​— Mt 21:17; Mr 11:11 . Media The Treasury Chests and the Widow According to rabbinic sources, the temple built by Herod contained 13 treasury chests, called shofar chests. The Hebrew word shoh·pharʹ means “ram’s horn,” indicating that at least part of the chest might have been shaped like a horn, or trumpet. Those who heard Jesus condemn people who symbolically blew a trumpet when giving gifts of mercy may have been reminded of the noise that coins made as they were dropped into these trumpet-shaped treasury chests. ( Mt 6:2 ) The two small coins donated by the widow might not have made much noise when she deposited them, but Jesus showed that both the widow and her contribution were valuable to Jehovah. Stones From the Temple Mount These stones, found on the southern part of the Western Wall, are believed to have been part of the structures on the first-century temple mount. They have been left here as a grim reminder of the destruction of Jerusalem and its temple by the Romans. The Arch of Titus in Rome The photo on the left shows the triumphal arch located at the Forum in Rome, Italy. The arch was built to commemorate the victory by Roman General Titus over Jerusalem and Judea in 70 C.E. In June 71 C.E., Titus and his father, Emperor Vespasian, celebrated this victory in the capital of the Roman Empire. Titus succeeded Vespasian as emperor in 79 C.E. Two years later, Titus died unexpectedly, and shortly thereafter, this arch was built in his honor. Titus’ triumphal procession is represented in bas-relief sculptures carved on each side of the passage through the arch and originally painted in vibrant colors. On one side (1), Roman soldiers are shown carrying sacred furniture from Jerusalem’s temple. Clearly seen among the spoils are the seven-branched lampstand and the table of showbread, on which rest the sacred trumpets. The relief on the other side of the passage (2) shows the victorious Titus standing in a chariot drawn by four horses. These reliefs exemplify the illustrations that the apostle Paul used in two of his letters. ( 2Co 2:14; Col 2:15 ) Those who received Paul’s letters were no doubt familiar with Roman triumphal processions. At the time, such public rituals were authorized by the Roman emperor or his family. The Arch of Titus confirms the fulfillment of Jesus’ prophecy about the city of Jerusalem being captured and its inhabitants taken captive.​— Lu 21:24 . Judea Capta Coin In his great prophecy about what would happen to Jerusalem and its temple, Jesus foretold that the inhabitants of Judea would “be led captive into all the nations.” ( Lu 21:21, 24 ) The coin shown here is a striking testimony to the fulfillment of Jesus’ words. Such coins commemorating the capture of Judea were first minted in 71 C.E. One side of the coin contains an image of Titus, the son of Emperor Vespasian. Titus completed the conquest of Judea that Vespasian had begun. The other side shows a palm tree flanked by a captive Judean male with his hands tied behind his back and a seated Jewish woman in mourning. The inscription reads “IVDAEA CAPTA,” meaning “Captive Judea.” Roman Sword Jesus foretold that the inhabitants of Jerusalem and Judea would “fall by the edge of the sword.” ( Lu 21:24 ) The 2,000-year-old sword shown in the photograph likely belonged to a soldier serving in the Roman infantry that was stationed in Jerusalem in 66 C.E. when the revolt against the Romans erupted. The sword is about 60 cm (24 in.) long, and the remains of its leather scabbard, or sheath, are still attached. This sword was recently found (reported in 2011) when archaeologists were excavating a drainage channel between the City of David and the archaeological garden near the Western Wall in Jerusalem. This channel evidently served as a hiding place for residents of Jerusalem during the turbulent time preceding Jerusalem’s destruction in 70 C.E. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Luke 21 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS