According to Luke 24:1-53 24 But on the first day of the week, they came very early to the tomb, bringing the spices they had prepared. + 2 But they found the stone rolled away from the tomb, + 3 and when they entered, they did not find the body of the Lord Jesus. + 4 While they were perplexed about this, look! two men in shining garments stood by them. 5 The women became frightened and kept their faces turned toward the ground, so the men said to them: “Why are you looking for the living one among the dead? + 6 He is not here, but has been raised up. Recall how he spoke to you while he was yet in Galʹi·lee, 7 saying that the Son of man must be handed over to sinful men and be executed on the stake and on the third day rise.” + 8 Then they remembered his words, + 9 and they returned from the tomb * and reported all these things to the Eleven and to all the rest. + 10 They were Mary Magʹda·lene, Jo·anʹna, and Mary the mother of James. Also, the rest of the women + with them were telling these things to the apostles. 11 However, these sayings seemed like nonsense to them, and they would not believe the women. 12 But Peter got up and ran to the tomb, * and stooping forward, he saw only the linen cloths. So he went off, wondering to himself what had occurred. 13 But look! on that very day, two of them were traveling to a village named Em·maʹus, about seven miles from Jerusalem, 14 and they were conversing with each other about all these things that had happened. 15 Now as they were conversing and discussing these things, Jesus himself approached and began walking with them, 16 but their eyes were kept from recognizing him. + 17 He said to them: “What are these matters that you are debating between yourselves as you walk along?” And they stood still, looking sad. 18 In answer the one named Cleʹo·pas said to him: “Are you a stranger dwelling alone in Jerusalem and do not know * the things that have occurred there during these days?” 19 He asked them: “What things?” They said to him: “The things concerning Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ, + who proved to be a prophet powerful in deed and word before God and all the people; + 20 and how our chief priests and rulers handed him over to be sentenced to death, + and they nailed him to the stake. + 21 But we were hoping that this man was the one who was going to deliver Israel. + Yes, and besides all these things, this is the third day since these things occurred. 22 Moreover, some women from among us also astonished us, for they went early to the tomb * + 23 and when they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a supernatural sight of angels, who said he is alive. 24 Then some of those who were with us went off to the tomb, * + and they found it just as the women had said, but they did not see him.” 25 So he said to them: “O senseless ones and slow of heart to believe all the things the prophets have spoken! 26 Was it not necessary for the Christ to suffer these things + and to enter into his glory?” + 27 And starting with Moses and all the Prophets, + he interpreted to them things pertaining to himself in all the Scriptures. 28 Finally they got close to the village to which they were traveling, and he made as if to travel on farther. 29 But they urged him to remain, saying: “Stay with us, because it is almost evening and the day is nearly over.” With that he went in to stay with them. 30 And as he was dining * with them, he took the bread, blessed it, broke it, and began handing it to them. + 31 At that their eyes were fully opened and they recognized him; but he disappeared from them. + 32 And they said to each other: “Were not our hearts burning within us as he was speaking to us on the road, as he was fully opening up * the Scriptures to us?” 33 And they got up in that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and they found the Eleven and those assembled together with them, 34 who said: “For a fact the Lord was raised up, and he appeared to Simon!” + 35 Then they related the events on the road and how he became known to them by the breaking of the bread. + 36 While they were speaking of these things, he himself stood in their midst and said to them: “May you have peace.” + 37 But because they were terrified and frightened, they imagined that they were seeing a spirit. + 38 So he said to them: “Why are you troubled, and why have doubts come up in your hearts? 39 See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself; touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones just as you see that I have.” 40 And as he said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. 41 But while they were still not believing for sheer joy and amazement, he said to them: “Do you have something there to eat?” + 42 So they handed him a piece of broiled fish, 43 and he took it and ate it before their eyes. 44 He then said to them: “These are my words that I spoke to you while I was yet with you, + that all the things written about me in the Law of Moses and in the Prophets and Psalms must be fulfilled.” + 45 Then he opened up their minds fully to grasp the meaning of the Scriptures, + 46 and he said to them, “This is what is written: that the Christ would suffer and rise from among the dead on the third day, + 47 and on the basis of his name, repentance for forgiveness of sins + would be preached in all the nations + —starting out from Jerusalem. + 48 You are to be witnesses of these things. + 49 And look! I am sending upon you what my Father promised. You, though, stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high.” + 50 Then he led them out as far as Bethʹa·ny, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them. 51 As he was blessing them, he was parted from them and taken up to heaven. + 52 And they did obeisance to him and returned to Jerusalem with great joy. + 53 And they were continually in the temple, praising God. + Footnotes ^ Or “memorial tomb.” ^ Or “memorial tomb.” ^ Or possibly, “Are you the only visitor in Jerusalem who does not know . . . ?” ^ Or “memorial tomb.” ^ Or “memorial tomb.” ^ Or “reclining at the table.” ^ Or “clearly explaining.” Study Notes the first day of the week: See study note on Mt 28:1 . tomb: See study note on Mt 27:60 . the spices they had prepared: See study note on Mr 16:1 . the stone: See study note on Mr 15:46 . of the Lord Jesus: Some manuscripts do not include these words, but the longer reading has strong support in early authoritative manuscripts.​—For more information about how ancient manuscripts are used to establish the Greek text, see App. A3 . two men in shining garments: This is an indirect reference to angels. (Compare Lu 24:23 .) At Ac 1:10 , angels are referred to as “men in white garments.” He is not here, but has been raised up: Some manuscripts do not include these words, but they have strong support in early authoritative manuscripts.​—See App. A3 . executed on the stake: Or “fastened on a stake (pole).”​—See study note on Mt 20:19 and Glossary, “ Stake ”; “ Torture stake .” they . . . reported all these things to the Eleven: The two angels, referred to at Lu 24:4 as “men in shining garments,” could have shared the news of Jesus’ resurrection with his male disciples first. Instead, women were favored with being the first to learn of his resurrection. ( Lu 24:6-9; Joh 20:11-18 ) And women were also given the honor of reporting the resurrection “to the Eleven and to all the rest” of the disciples. Additionally, Mary Magdalene was among the first disciples who saw the resurrected Jesus.​— Joh 20:16 ; see study note on Mt 28:7 . from the tomb: Some manuscripts do not include these words, but they have strong support in early authoritative manuscripts. Mary Magdalene: See study note on Lu 8:2 . Joanna: This is a shortened feminine form of the Hebrew name Jehohanan, meaning “Jehovah Has Shown Favor; Jehovah Has Been Gracious.” Joanna, who had been healed by Jesus, was the wife of Chuza, one of Herod Antipas’ officials. She is mentioned only twice in the Christian Greek Scriptures and only in Luke’s Gospel account.​— Lu 8:2, 3 . . . . what had occurred: Some manuscripts do not include the words of this verse, but the verse has strong support in early authoritative manuscripts.​—See App. A3 . about seven miles: About 11 km. Lit., “60 stadia.” A Roman stadium equaled 185 m (606.95 ft).​—See Glossary, “ Mile ,” and App. B14 . interpreted: The Greek word di·er·me·neuʹo can be used in the sense “to translate from one language to another.” ( Ac 9:36; 1Co 12:30 , ftn.) However, it also signifies “to clarify the meaning; to explain fully.” In this verse, it refers to interpreting the meaning of prophecies. burning: The expression is rendered from a Greek word that is here used metaphorically to describe strong emotions, such as joy and pleasure, and includes the idea of intense interest and enthusiasm. Here it describes the reaction of the two disciples when Jesus was fully opening up, or carefully explaining, the inspired Hebrew Scriptures to them. within us: Some early manuscripts do not include these words, but they are included in other early authoritative manuscripts.​—See App. A3 . fully opening up the Scriptures: The Greek verb for “to open up fully” ( di·a·noiʹgo ) is used three times in this chapter. First, at Lu 24:31 , it describes how the “eyes” of the two disciples “were fully opened,” allowing them to perceive that they were talking with Jesus. Second, here at Lu 24:32 , the word is used in the sense of “clearly explaining.” And third, at Lu 24:45 , this Greek word is used to describe how Jesus “opened up” the minds of the disciples so that they could grasp the meaning of the inspired Hebrew Scriptures.​—See also Ac 7:56 , “opened up”; 16:14 , “opened . . . wide”; and 17:3 , “explaining [lit., “opening up thoroughly”],” where the same Greek word is used. and said to them: “May you have peace”: Some manuscripts do not include these words, but they have strong support in early authoritative manuscripts. a spirit: Although the Greek word pneuʹma can refer to invisible spirit persons, here the term evidently refers to an apparition or a vision. Jesus showed the disciples his hands and feet and told them: “Touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones just as you see that I have.” ( Lu 24:39 ) This was to prove that like angels in the past, he had materialized in order to be seen by the disciples.​— Ge 18:1-8; 19:1-3 . my hands and my feet: As in Jesus’ case, nailing the hands (and likely the feet also) of the accused to a stake was customary among the Romans. ( Ps 22:16; Joh 20:25, 27; Col 2:14 ) Some scholars believe that a nail or nails pierced Jesus’ feet, fixing them directly to the stake or to a small platform attached to the stake. . . . and his feet: Some manuscripts do not include the words of this verse, but the verse has strong support in early authoritative manuscripts.​—See App. A3 . fish: Some later manuscripts add the words “and a honeycomb,” but early authoritative manuscripts do not include these words. in the Law of Moses and in the Prophets and Psalms: Jesus was here evidently grouping the entire inspired Hebrew Scriptures in the way adopted by the Jews and known to them. “The Law” (Hebrew, Toh·rahʹ ) refers to the Bible books of Genesis through Deuteronomy. “The Prophets” (Hebrew, Nevi·ʼimʹ ) refers to the prophetic books of the Hebrew Scriptures, including the so-called Former Prophets (the Bible books of Joshua through Kings). “Psalms” refers to the third section, which contains the remaining books of the Hebrew Scriptures and is called the Writings, or in Hebrew, Kethu·vimʹ. The designation “Psalms” is used because it was the first book of the third section. The term “Tanakh,” a Jewish designation for the Hebrew Scriptures, comes from combining the first letter of each of these three sections ( TaNaKh ). Jesus’ use of these three terms indicates that the canon of the Hebrew Scriptures was well-established when he was on earth and was approved by him. You are to be witnesses: This is one of the first times that Jesus tells his disciples “to be witnesses” about his life and ministry, including his death and resurrection. (Compare Joh 15:27 .) As faithful Jews, Jesus’ disciples were already witnesses of Jehovah and testified that He is the only true God. ( Isa 43:10-12; 44:8 ) Some 40 days after the events recorded here, Jesus repeats and further emphasizes their new assignment to be his witnesses.​—See study note on Ac 1:8 . what my Father promised: That is, the holy spirit promised at Joe 2:28, 29 and Joh 14:16, 17, 26 . This active force would energize Jesus’ disciples to serve as witnesses in all the earth.​— Ac 1:4, 5, 8; 2:33 . the city: That is, Jerusalem. Then: Ac 1:3-9 shows that Jesus’ ascension took place 40 days from the time of his resurrection. So there is a time lapse between the events that took place on Jesus’ resurrection day (Nisan 16), as recorded at Lu 24:1-49 , and the events that occurred on the day of his ascension (Iyyar 25), which are described from this verse to the end of the chapter.​—See App. A7 . Bethany: See study note on Mt 21:17 . and taken up to heaven: Some manuscripts do not include these words, but the words do have strong support in early authoritative manuscripts. Also, Luke indicated at Ac 1:1, 2 that in his “first account,” namely, his Gospel , he had discussed what Jesus had done in his life and ministry “until the day that he [Jesus] was taken up.” So it is quite appropriate that in his inspired account, Luke would have included these words about Jesus’ ascension to heaven. did obeisance to him: Or “bowed down to him; prostrated themselves to him; paid him homage.” When the Greek verb pro·sky·neʹo is used to refer to the worship of a god or a deity, it is rendered “to worship.” ( Mt 4:10; Lu 4:8 ) In this context, however, the disciples recognized the resurrected Jesus as God’s representative. They rendered obeisance to him, not as to God or a deity, but as to “God’s Son,” the foretold “Son of man,” the Messiah with divine authority. ( Lu 1:35; Mt 16:13-16; Joh 9:35-38 ) This was similar to the way that people mentioned in the Hebrew Scriptures bowed down when meeting prophets, kings, or other representatives of God. ( 1Sa 25:23, 24; 2Sa 14:4; 1Ki 1:16; 2Ki 4:36, 37 ) On many occasions, the obeisance done to Jesus expressed gratitude for divine revelation or recognition of divine favor like that expressed in earlier times.​— Mt 14:32, 33; 28:5-10, 16-18; Joh 9:35, 38 ; see also study notes on Mt 2:2; 8:2; 14:33; 15:25 . did obeisance to him and: Some manuscripts do not include these words, but the words do have strong support in early authoritative manuscripts.​—See App. A3 . were continually in the temple: After Jesus’ execution, the disciples were in fear of their enemies, so they met behind locked doors. ( Joh 20:19, 26 ) However, the disciples were strengthened when they received enlightenment from Jesus ( Ac 1:3 ) as well as when they witnessed his ascension to heaven on the 40th day after his resurrection. They courageously came out in public, praising God. Luke adds to the record he began with his Gospel account by writing the book of Acts, documenting the zealous activity of the disciples.​—See study note on Ac 1:1 . Media Nail in a Heel Bone This is a photograph of a replica of a human heel bone pierced by an iron nail that was 11.5 cm (4.5 in.) long. The original artifact was found in 1968, during excavations in northern Jerusalem, and dates to Roman times. It provides archaeological evidence that nails were used in executions to fasten the person to a wooden stake. This nail may be similar to the nails employed by the Roman soldiers to fasten Jesus Christ to the stake. The artifact was found in a stone box, called an ossuary, into which the dried bones of a deceased person were placed after the flesh had decomposed. This indicates that someone executed on a stake could be given a burial. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Luke 24 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS