DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48 Ezekiel 23:1-49 PLAY OUTLINE OF CONTENTS Two sisters who are unfaithful ( 1-49 ) Oholah with Assyria ( 5-10 ) Oholibah with Babylon and Egypt ( 11-35 ) Punishment on the two sisters ( 36-49 ) 23 The word of Jehovah again came to me, saying: 2 “Son of man, there were two women who were the daughters of the same mother. + 3 They became prostitutes in Egypt; + from their youth they engaged in prostitution. Their breasts were squeezed there, and their virgin bosoms were fondled. 4 Their names were O·hoʹlah, * the older one, and her sister O·hoʹli·bah. * They became mine and gave birth to sons and daughters. As for their names, O·hoʹlah is Sa·marʹi·a, + and O·hoʹli·bah is Jerusalem. 5 “O·hoʹlah began to prostitute herself + while she belonged to me. She lusted after her passionate lovers, + her neighbors the As·syrʹi·ans. + 6 They were governors clothed in blue and deputy rulers—all desirable young men mounted on their horses. 7 She continued to prostitute herself with all the choicest sons of As·syrʹi·a, and she defiled herself + with the disgusting idols * of those she lusted after. 8 She did not abandon the prostitution she practiced in Egypt, for in her youth they had lain down with her, and they fondled her virgin bosom and poured out their lust * on her. + 9 So I gave her into the hand of her passionate lovers, the sons of As·syrʹi·a, + after whom she had lusted. 10 They exposed her nakedness + and seized her sons and daughters, + and they killed her with a sword. She became notorious among women, and they executed judgment against her. 11 “When her sister O·hoʹli·bah saw it, her lust became even more depraved, and her prostitution was worse than that of her sister. + 12 She lusted after her neighbors the sons of As·syrʹi·a, + the governors and deputy rulers who were clothed in splendor and mounted on horses—all desirable young men. 13 When she defiled herself, I saw that both of them had followed the same course. + 14 But she kept adding to her acts of prostitution. She saw men carved on the wall, images of Chal·deʹans carved in vermilion, * 15 wearing belts around their waist, with flowing turbans on their heads, having the appearance of warriors, all of them depicting Babylonians, born in the land of the Chal·deʹans. 16 She began to lust after them as soon as she saw them, and she sent messengers to them in Chal·deʹa. + 17 So the sons of Babylon kept coming to her bed of lovemaking, and they defiled her with their lust. * After she was defiled by them, she * turned away from them in disgust. 18 “When she went on brazenly engaging in prostitution and exposing her nakedness, + I turned away from her in disgust, just as I * had turned away from her sister in disgust. + 19 And she kept increasing her acts of prostitution, + calling to mind the days of her youth when she prostituted herself in the land of Egypt. + 20 She lusted after them like the concubines of men whose male members are like those of a donkey and whose genitals are like those of a horse. 21 You yearned for the obscene conduct of your youth in Egypt + when they fondled your bosom, the breasts of your youth. + 22 “Therefore, O·hoʹli·bah, this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Here I am stirring up your lovers + whom you * turned away from in disgust, and I will bring them against you from every direction, + 23 the sons of Babylon + and all the Chal·deʹans, + the men of Peʹkod + and Shoʹa and Koʹa, along with all the sons of As·syrʹi·a. All of them are desirable young men, governors and deputy rulers, warriors and handpicked, * all mounted on horses. 24 They will attack you with rumbling war chariots and wheels and with a great assembly of troops, with large shield and buckler * and helmet. They will take up positions all around you, and I will authorize them to pass judgment, and they will judge you as they see fit. + 25 I will express my indignation against you, and they will deal with you in their rage. They will cut off your nose and your ears, and those of you who remain will fall by the sword. They will take away your sons and your daughters, and those of you who remain will be consumed by fire. + 26 They will strip off your garments + and seize your beautiful jewelry. * + 27 I will put an end to your obscene conduct and your prostitution, + which started in the land of Egypt. + You will stop looking at them, and you will remember Egypt no more.’ 28 “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Here I am about to hand you over to those you hate, those you * turned away from in disgust. + 29 They will deal with you in hatred and take away all you have toiled for + and leave you naked and exposed. The shameful nakedness of your immorality and your obscene conduct and your prostitution will be exposed. + 30 These things will be done to you because you chased after the nations like a prostitute, + because you defiled yourself with their disgusting idols. + 31 You have followed the same course as your sister, + and I will put her cup into your hand.’ + 32 “This is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘You will drink the deep and wide cup of your sister, + And you will become an object of laughter and ridicule, of which the cup contains much. + 33 You will be overcome by * drunkenness and grief, A cup of horror and desolation, The cup of your sister, Sa·marʹi·a. 34 You will have to drink it and drain it dry + and gnaw on its earthenware fragments And then tear out your breasts. “For I myself have spoken,” declares the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.’ 35 “Therefore this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘Because you have forgotten me and have completely disregarded me, * + you will bear the consequences of your obscene conduct and your acts of prostitution.’” 36 Jehovah then said to me: “Son of man, will you pronounce judgment on O·hoʹlah and O·hoʹli·bah + and confront them with their disgusting practices? 37 They have committed adultery, * + and there is blood on their hands. Not only have they committed adultery with their disgusting idols, but they have also made their sons whom they bore to me pass through the fire as food for their idols. + 38 Moreover, this is what they have done to me: They defiled my sanctuary on that day, and they profaned my sabbaths. 39 After they slaughtered their sons as sacrifices to their disgusting idols, + they came into my sanctuary to profane it + on that very day. That is what they did inside my own house. 40 They even sent a messenger for men to come from far away. + When they were coming, you washed yourself and painted your eyes and adorned yourself with ornaments. + 41 And you sat down on a magnificent couch + with a table set in front of it, + on which you put my incense + and my oil. + 42 The sound of a carefree crowd of men was heard there, among whom were drunkards brought in from the wilderness. They put bracelets on the hands of the women and beautiful crowns on their heads. 43 “Then I said regarding her who was worn out with adultery: ‘Now she will keep committing her prostitution.’ 44 So they kept going in to her, just as one goes to a prostitute. That is how they went in to O·hoʹlah and to O·hoʹli·bah, the women of obscene conduct. 45 But righteous men will render to her the appropriate judgment for adultery + and bloodshed; + for adulteresses is what they are, and they have blood on their hands. + 46 “For this is what the Sovereign Lord Jehovah says: ‘An army will be brought against them to make them an object of horror and something to plunder. + 47 The army will hurl stones at them + and cut them down with their swords. They will kill their sons and daughters + and burn their houses with fire. + 48 I will put an end to the obscene conduct in the land, and all the women will learn a lesson and not copy your obscene conduct. + 49 They will bring on you the consequences of your obscene conduct and of your sins with your disgusting idols; and you will have to know that I am the Sovereign Lord Jehovah.’” + Footnotes ^ Meaning “Her Tent.” ^ Meaning “My Tent Is in Her.” ^ The Hebrew term may be related to a word for “dung” and is used as an expression of contempt. ^ Or “immoral intercourse.” ^ Or “red.” ^ Or “immoral intercourse.” ^ Or “her soul.” ^ Or “my soul.” ^ Or “your soul.” ^ Lit., “summoned ones.” ^ A small shield, often carried by archers. ^ Or “ornaments.” ^ Or “your soul.” ^ Lit., “filled with.” ^ Lit., “have cast me behind your back.” ^ That is, spiritual adultery. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (2013 REVISION) Ezekiel 23 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001061103/univ/art/1001061103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwt p. 40 Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) PDF EPUB JWPUB Screen Reader (RTF) Notetaker (BRL) DAISY Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar Ezekiel OUTLINE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 37 38 39 40 41 42 43 44 45 46 47 48