The First to the Corinthians 1:1-31 1 Paul, called to be an apostle + of Christ Jesus by God’s will, and Sosʹthe·nes our brother, 2 to the congregation of God that is in Corinth, + to you who have been sanctified in union with Christ Jesus, + called to be holy ones, + together with all those everywhere who are calling on the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, + their Lord and ours: 3 May you have undeserved kindness and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. 4 I always thank my God for you in view of the undeserved kindness of God given to you in Christ Jesus; 5 because in everything you have been enriched in him, in full ability to speak and in full knowledge, + 6 just as the witness * about the Christ + has been made firm among you, 7 so that you do not lack in any gift at all, while you are eagerly waiting for the revelation of our Lord Jesus Christ. + 8 He will also make you firm to the end so that you may be open to no accusation in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. + 9 God is faithful, + by whom you were called into fellowship with his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. 10 Now I urge you, brothers, through the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you should all speak in agreement and that there should be no divisions among you, + but that you may be completely united in the same mind and in the same line of thought. + 11 For some from the house of Chloʹe have informed me regarding you, my brothers, that there are dissensions among you. + 12 What I mean is this, that each one of you says: “I belong to Paul,” “But I to A·polʹlos,” + “But I to Ceʹphas,” “But I to Christ.” 13 Is the Christ divided? Paul was not executed on the stake for you, was he? Or were you baptized in the name of Paul? 14 I thank God that I baptized none of you except Crisʹpus + and Gaʹius, + 15 so that no one may say that you were baptized in my name. 16 Yes, I also baptized the household of Stephʹa·nas. + As for the rest, I do not know whether I baptized anyone else. 17 For Christ sent me, not to baptize, but to declare the good news; + and not with wisdom of speech, * + so that the torture stake of the Christ should not be made useless. 18 For the speech about the torture stake is foolishness to those who are perishing, + but to us who are being saved, it is God’s power. + 19 For it is written: “I will make the wisdom of the wise men perish, and the intelligence of the intellectuals I will reject.” * + 20 Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this system of things? Has not God made the wisdom of the world foolish? 21 For since, in the wisdom of God, the world did not get to know God + through its wisdom, + God was pleased through the foolishness + of what is preached to save those believing. 22 For the Jews ask for signs + and the Greeks look for wisdom; + 23 but we preach Christ executed on the stake, to the Jews a cause for stumbling + but to the nations foolishness. + 24 However, to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God. + 25 Because a foolish thing of God is wiser than men, and a weak thing of God is stronger than men. + 26 For you see his calling of you, brothers, that there are not many wise in a fleshly way, + not many powerful, not many of noble birth, + 27 but God chose the foolish things of the world to put the wise men to shame; and God chose the weak things of the world to put the strong things to shame; + 28 and God chose the insignificant things of the world and the things looked down on, the things that are not, to bring to nothing the things that are, + 29 so that no one might boast in the sight of God. 30 But it is due to him that you are in union with Christ Jesus, who has become to us wisdom from God, also righteousness + and sanctification + and release by ransom, + 31 so that it may be just as it is written: “The one who boasts, let him boast in Jehovah.” + Footnotes ^ Or “the testimony.” ^ Or “with clever speech.” ^ Or “shove aside.” Study Notes The First to the Corinthians: Titles like this were apparently not part of the original text. Ancient manuscripts show that they were added later, doubtless to make it easier to identify the letters. The papyrus codex known as P 46 shows that scribes identified Bible books by titles. That codex is the earliest known collection of Paul’s letters, often dated to about the year 200 C.E. It contains nine of his letters. At the beginning of Paul’s first inspired letter to the Corinthians, this codex has a title that reads Pros Ko·rinʹthi·ous A (“Toward [or, “To”] Corinthians 1”). (See Media Gallery, “ Paul’s First Letter to the Corinthians .”) Other early manuscripts, such as Codex Vaticanus and Codex Sinaiticus of the fourth century C.E., contain the same title. In these manuscripts, the title appears both at the beginning of the letter and at the end. Sosthenes our brother: The name Sosthenes was not particularly common. The only other occurrence in the Bible is found at Ac 18:17 . Therefore, it is possible that the presiding officer of the synagogue who was beaten by the crowd in Corinth later became the Christian brother mentioned here and associated with Paul in Ephesus. At 1Co 16:21 , Paul implies that the bulk of the letter was not written in his own hand, perhaps indicating that Sosthenes was his secretary for this letter. the congregation of God that is in Corinth: Paul founded the Corinthian congregation about 50 C.E. ( Ac 18:1-11 ) While in Ephesus about 55 C.E., Paul wrote this first inspired letter to the Corinthians. (Compare 1Co 5:9 .) The brothers in Corinth had recently written to Paul, asking questions about marriage and the eating of foods offered to idols. ( 1Co 7:1; 8:1 ) But Paul was aware of problems that were even more pressing. The congregation was tolerating a case of flagrant immorality. ( 1Co 5:1-8 ) And there were also divisions in the congregation. ( 1Co 1:11-13; 11:18; 15:12-14, 33, 34 ) There may also have been some uncertainty about the proper handling of the Lord’s Evening Meal. ( 1Co 11:20-29 ) Paul provided inspired direction on these matters, placing special emphasis on the importance of showing Christian love.​— 1Co 13:1-13 . May you have undeserved kindness and peace: See study note on Ro 1:7 . fellowship: Or “a sharing.” Paul uses the Greek word koi·no·niʹa several times in his letters. ( 1Co 10:16; 2Co 6:14; 13:14 ) In this context, this word implies that fellowship with God’s Son involves close friendship and unity.​—See study note on Ac 2:42 . divisions: Or “splits; schisms.” Jesus prayed that his followers would be united ( Joh 17:20-23 ), and Paul was likewise vitally interested in the unity of the Christian congregation. By the time Paul wrote his first inspired letter to the Corinthians (c. 55 C.E.), there were factions in the congregation. Some viewed Apollos as their leader, while others favored Paul or Peter or held only to Christ. ( 1Co 1:11, 12 ) Paul counseled against giving undue prominence to men, who were simply ministers serving under God and Christ. ( 1Co 3:4-9, 21-23; 4:6, 7 ) He used the Greek word skhiʹsma, here rendered “divisions,” three times in his first letter to the Corinthians.​— 1Co 1:10; 11:18; 12:25 . the house of Chloe: In the Bible, this is the only mention of a woman named Chloe. She may have resided in Corinth or in Ephesus, where 1 Corinthians was written. Paul does not specifically state whether she was a Christian who lived in either of these cities. However, since he refers to this household by name, apparently at least some of the household​—either family members or slaves​—were Christians known to the Corinthians. Apollos: A Jewish Christian of Alexandria who traveled from Ephesus to Corinth and assisted those who had become believers. ( Ac 18:24-28; 19:1 ; see study note on Ac 18:24 .) Apollos “watered” the seeds that Paul had sowed in Corinth.​— 1Co 3:5, 6 ; see study note on 1Co 16:12 . Cephas: One of the names of the apostle Simon Peter. Upon meeting Simon for the first time, Jesus gave him the Semitic name Cephas (in Greek, Ke·phasʹ ). The name may be related to the Hebrew noun ke·phimʹ (rocks) used at Job 30:6 and Jer 4:29 . At Joh 1:42 , John explains that the name “is translated ‘Peter’” ( Peʹtros, a Greek name that similarly means “A Piece of Rock”). The name Cephas is used only at Joh 1:42 and in two of Paul’s letters, namely, 1 Corinthians and Galatians.​— 1Co 1:12; 3:22; 9:5; 15:5; Ga 1:18; 2:9, 11, 14 ; see study notes on Mt 10:2; Joh 1:42 . executed on the stake: Or “fastened on a stake (pole).”​—See study note on Mt 20:19 and Glossary, “ Stake ”; “ Torture stake .” Christ sent me, not to baptize: Paul was authorized to baptize ( Mt 28:19 ) and did so on occasion. However, in this context he shows that performing baptisms was not his primary assignment from Christ. ( 1Co 1:14, 16 ) He did not want baptizing to become a source of division, as if baptisms performed by an apostle were more meaningful than those done by others. the torture stake of the Christ: Here the term “torture stake” (Greek, stau·rosʹ ) is used to represent Jesus’ death on the stake. Jesus died in this way so that mankind would no longer be enslaved to sin but could have a good relationship with God. the torture stake: See study note on 1Co 1:17 . the scribe: That is, an expert in the Mosaic Law. this system of things: The basic meaning of the Greek word ai·onʹ is “age.” It can refer to a state of affairs or to features that distinguish a certain period of time, epoch, or age. (See Glossary, “ System(s) of things .”) Here the term refers to what 2Ti 4:10 calls “the present system of things,” that is, the prevailing state of affairs in the world in general. the foolishness of what is preached: Paul described the preaching about Christ as “foolishness” because to the nations, that is what the message appeared to be. The Greeks could not understand why a Jew had to die as a despised criminal to save them. ( 1Co 1:18, 25 ; see study note on 1Co 1:22 .) The Jews expected to be saved by works of law, by the giving of alms, and by the merit of their ancestors, especially Abraham. They did not want a messiah whom they saw as being weak, a man who allowed himself to be nailed to a stake.​— 1Co 1:23 . the Greeks: In the first century C.E., the Greek word Helʹlen, used here, did not necessarily refer only to natives of Greece or to people of Greek origin. In this context, the term is used in parallel with “the nations” ( 1Co 1:23 ) and refers to “the Greeks” as representative of all non-Jewish peoples ( Ro 1:16; 2:9, 10; 3:9; 10:12; 1Co 10:32; 12:13 ). This was no doubt due to the prominence of the Greek language and culture throughout the Roman Empire.​—See study note on Ro 1:16 . to the Jews a cause for stumbling: The Law stated that a man hung on a stake was “accursed of God.” ( De 21:22, 23; Ga 3:13 ) So the Jews viewed Jesus’ manner of death as shameful, not fit for the Messiah. It therefore became to them “a cause for stumbling.” in a fleshly way: Or “by human standards.” Lit., “according to the flesh.” of noble birth: Or “from important families.” Some scholars believe that the Greek word referred to the descendants of the city’s more prominent older families. In the Greco-Roman world, those who had such a “noble birth” were part of the elite. The use of this term here indicates that a few Corinthian Christians may have been from the upper class of society and were socially privileged. one: Lit., “flesh.” The Greek word sarx is here used in the sense of a human, a being of flesh and blood.​—See study notes on Joh 17:2; Ro 3:20; 1Co 1:26 . Jehovah: In this quote from Jer 9:24 , the divine name, represented by four Hebrew consonants (transliterated YHWH ), occurs in the original Hebrew text of Jeremiah.​—See App. C1 and C2 . Media Paul’s First Letter to the Corinthians Shown here is a page from a papyrus codex referred to as P 46 . Parts of it (Papyrus Chester Beatty 2) are housed in Dublin, Ireland, and parts of it (Papyrus Michigan Inv. 6238), in Ann Arbor, Michigan, U.S.A. This leaf is kept at the Chester Beatty Library in Dublin. The codex is believed to date from about the year 200 C.E. It consists of 86 somewhat damaged leaves from a codex that originally may have had 104 leaves. It contains nine of Paul’s inspired letters. Highlighted is the title, which reads “Toward [or, “To”] Corinthians 1.” This papyrus collection provides evidence that from an early date, scribes identified Bible books by titles. Video Introduction to the Book of 1 Corinthians Corinth—A Thriving Metropolis The apostle Paul visited Corinth more than once during his missionary tours. On his first visit, he stayed there for 18 months. ( Ac 18:1, 11; 20:2, 3 ) At that time, the city of Corinth was a thriving commercial center, thanks in large part to its strategic location on the isthmus that connects the Peloponnesian Peninsula to the Greek mainland. This allowed the city to control the flow of goods at two nearby ports, Lechaeum and Cenchreae. Corinth was a crossroads for merchants and travelers from all over the Roman Empire, making it an ideal location to carry out the preaching work. In this video, learn about Corinth’s history, including archaeological discoveries, such as the Erastus inscription. See the city’s agora (marketplace), bema (judgment seat), and one of its theaters as it may have appeared in Paul’s day. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) 1 Corinthians 1 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS