Acts of Apostles 22:1-30 22 “Men, brothers and fathers, hear my defense to you now.” + 2 Well, when they heard that he was addressing them in the Hebrew language, they kept all the more silent, and he said: 3 “I am a Jew, + born in Tarsus of Ci·liʹcia, + but educated in this city at the feet of Ga·maʹli·el, + instructed according to the strictness of the ancestral Law, + and zealous for God just as all of you are this day. + 4 I persecuted this Way to the point of death, binding and handing over to prisons both men and women, + 5 as the high priest and all the assembly of elders can bear witness. From them I also obtained letters to the brothers in Damascus, and I was on my way to bring those who were there in bonds to Jerusalem to be punished. 6 “But as I was traveling and getting near to Damascus, about midday, suddenly out of heaven a great light flashed all around me, + 7 and I fell to the ground and heard a voice say to me: ‘Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me?’ 8 I answered: ‘Who are you, Lord?’ And he said to me: ‘I am Jesus the Naz·a·reneʹ, whom you are persecuting.’ 9 Now the men who were with me did see the light, but they did not hear the voice of the one speaking to me. + 10 At that I said: ‘What should * I do, Lord?’ The Lord said to me: ‘Rise, go into Damascus, and there you will be told about everything it is appointed for you to do.’ + 11 But since I could not see anything because of the glory of that light, I arrived in Damascus led by the hand of those who were with me. 12 “Then a man named An·a·niʹas, + a devout man according to the Law, well-reported-on by all the Jews living there, 13 came to me. He stood by me and said to me: ‘Saul, brother, regain your sight!’ And that very moment I looked up and saw him. + 14 He said: ‘The God of our forefathers has chosen you to come to know his will and to see the righteous one + and to hear the voice of his mouth, 15 because you are to be a witness for him to all men of the things you have seen and heard. + 16 And now why are you delaying? Rise, get baptized, and wash your sins + away by your calling on his name.’ + 17 “But when I had returned to Jerusalem + and was praying in the temple, I fell into a trance 18 and saw him saying to me: ‘Hurry up and get out of Jerusalem quickly, because they will not accept your witness concerning me.’ + 19 And I said: ‘Lord, they themselves well know that I used to imprison and flog in one synagogue after another those believing in you; + 20 and when the blood of Stephen your witness was being spilled, I was standing by and approving and guarding the outer garments of those doing away with him.’ + 21 And yet he said to me: ‘Go, because I will send you out to nations far away.’” + 22 Now they kept listening to him down to this word. Then they raised their voices, saying: “Take such a man away from the earth, for he is not fit to live!” 23 Because they were crying out, throwing their outer garments about, and tossing dust into the air, + 24 the military commander ordered Paul to be brought into the soldiers’ quarters and said that he should be interrogated under scourging, so that he could learn exactly why they were shouting against Paul this way. 25 But when they had stretched him out for the whipping, Paul said to the army officer standing there: “Is it lawful for you to scourge a Roman who has not been condemned?” * + 26 Well, when the army officer heard this, he went to the military commander and reported it, saying: “What are you intending to do? For this man is a Roman.” 27 So the military commander approached and said to him: “Tell me, are you a Roman?” He said: “Yes.” 28 The military commander responded: “I purchased these rights as a citizen for a large sum of money.” Paul said: “But I have them by birth.” + 29 Immediately, therefore, the men who were about to interrogate him under torture backed away from him; and the military commander became afraid when he realized that he was a Roman and that he had bound him in chains. + 30 So the next day, because he wanted to know for sure just why he was being accused by the Jews, he released him and commanded the chief priests and all the Sanʹhe·drin to assemble. He then brought Paul down and had him stand among them. + Footnotes ^ Or “must.” ^ Or “who has not had a trial?” Study Notes in the Hebrew language: See study note on Joh 5:2 . Gamaliel: A Law teacher mentioned twice in Acts, here and at Ac 5:34 .​—See study note on Ac 5:34 . assembly of elders: Or “council (body) of elders.” The Greek word pre·sby·teʹri·on used here is related to the term pre·sbyʹte·ros (lit., “older man”), which in the Bible refers primarily to those who hold a position of authority and responsibility in a community or a nation. Although the term sometimes refers to physical age (as at Lu 15:25 and Ac 2:17 ), it is not limited to those who are elderly. The expression “assembly of elders” here apparently refers to the Sanhedrin, the Jewish high court in Jerusalem, which was made up of the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders. These three groups are often mentioned together.​— Mt 16:21; 27:41; Mr 8:31; 11:27; 14:43, 53; 15:1; Lu 9:22; 20:1 ; see study note on Lu 22:66 . the Nazarene: See study note on Mr 10:47 . they did not hear the voice: Or “they did not understand the voice.” At Ac 9:3-9 , Luke describes Paul’s experience on the road to Damascus. These two accounts taken together give the full picture of what happened. As explained in the study note on Ac 9:7 , the men accompanying Paul heard “the sound of a voice” but apparently did not understand the words spoken. Thus, they did not hear the voice the way Paul did. This is in agreement with how the Greek word for “hear” is used at Ac 22:7 , where Paul explains that he “heard a voice,” that is, he heard and understood the words. By contrast, those traveling with Paul did not understand the message being conveyed to Paul, perhaps because the voice was muffled or distorted in some way. It is apparently in this sense that “they did not hear the voice.”​—Compare Mr 4:33; 1Co 14:2 , where the same Greek word for “hear” could be rendered “to listen” or “to understand.” regain your sight!: Lit., “look up!” The Greek word basically means “to direct one’s vision upward” ( Mt 14:19; Lu 19:5 ), but it can also refer to gaining sight for the first time ( Joh 9:11, 15, 18 ) or to having one’s sight restored ( Mr 10:52; Lu 18:42; Ac 9:12 ). wash your sins away by your calling on his name: A person will have his sins washed away, not by the baptismal water itself, but by calling on the name of Jesus. Doing this involves putting faith in Jesus and demonstrating that faith by Christian works.​— Ac 10:43; Jas 2:14, 18 ; see study note on Ro 10:13 . I fell into a trance: For a discussion of the Greek term ekʹsta·sis, here rendered “a trance,” see study note on Ac 10:10 . Some translations of the Christian Greek Scriptures into Hebrew (referred to as J 14, 17, 22 in App. C4 ) read: “Jehovah’s hand was upon me.” Another translation (referred to as J 18 ) reads: “Jehovah’s spirit clothed me.” your witness: The Greek term for “witness,” marʹtys, refers to one who observes a deed or an event. From firsthand knowledge, some first-century Christians could bear witness to, or confirm, historical facts about Jesus’ life, death, and resurrection. ( Ac 1:21, 22; 10:40, 41 ) Those who later put faith in Jesus could bear witness by proclaiming the significance of his life, death, and resurrection. ( Ac 22:15 ) Speaking to Jesus, Paul used the word in this sense when he called Stephen “your witness.” Before the Sanhedrin, Stephen had given a powerful testimony about Jesus. Stephen was also the first to bear witness that he had seen, in a special vision, Jesus returned to heaven and standing at the right hand of God, as prophesied at Ps 110:1 . ( Ac 7:55, 56 ) Christian witnessing often meant facing opposition, arrest, beatings, and even death, as in the case of Stephen, James, and others. Accordingly, the Greek term marʹtys later came to signify “one who witnesses at the cost of his life, martyr,” that is, one who suffers death rather than renounce his faith. In this sense, Stephen became the first Christian martyr, whose blood . . . was being spilled because of the testimony he gave about Christ.​—See study note on Ac 1:8 . military commander: The Greek term khi·liʹar·khos (chiliarch) literally means “ruler of a thousand,” that is, soldiers. It refers to a Roman military commander called a tribune. (See study note on Joh 18:12 .) In about 56 C.E., Claudius Lysias was the military commander of the Jerusalem garrison. ( Ac 23:22, 26 ) As recounted in Acts chapters 21-24 , he was the one who rescued Paul both from the street mob and from the rioting Sanhedrin and who wrote a letter of explanation to Governor Felix when Paul was secretly taken to Caesarea. the army officer: Or “the centurion.” A centurion was in command of about 100 soldiers in the Roman army. a Roman: That is, a Roman citizen. This is the second of three recorded instances in which Paul made use of his rights as a Roman citizen. Roman authorities usually interfered little in Jewish affairs. However, the Romans got involved in Paul’s case not only because a riot erupted when he visited the temple but also because he was a Roman citizen. Citizenship afforded a person certain privileges that were recognized and honored throughout the empire. It was illegal, for example, to bind or beat an uncondemned Roman, since such treatment was considered fit for slaves only.​—For the other two occasions, see study notes on Ac 16:37; 25:11 . purchased these rights as a citizen: Or “purchased this citizenship.” As this account shows, under certain circumstances, it was possible to obtain Roman citizenship for a sum of money. Paul told Claudius Lysias that he (Paul) had the rights as a citizen by birth, which indicates that one of Paul’s male ancestors must have acquired citizenship. There were other ways to acquire Roman citizenship. An individual or even the entire free population of a city or district could receive a form of it as an award from the emperor. A slave could gain it after he bought his freedom from or was set free by a Roman citizen. A veteran of the auxiliary forces who was discharged from the Roman army would be granted it. And a person could also inherit citizenship. It is unlikely that there were many Roman citizens who lived in Judea in the first century C.E. Only in the third century C.E. were all provincial subjects given Roman citizenship. Media Saul and Damascus In the first century C.E., the city of Damascus likely had a layout similar to what is shown here. It was an important center for trade, and water drawn from the nearby Barada River (the Abanah of 2Ki 5:12 ) made the area around the city like an oasis. Damascus had a number of synagogues. Saul came to that city intending to arrest “any whom he found who belonged to The Way,” an expression used to describe the followers of Jesus. ( Ac 9:2; 19:9, 23; 22:4; 24:22 ) On the road to Damascus, however, the glorified Jesus appeared to Saul. After that, Saul stayed for a time in Damascus at the house of a man named Judas, who lived on the street called Straight. ( Ac 9:11 ) In a vision, Jesus directed the disciple Ananias to Judas’ house to restore Saul’s sight, and Saul later got baptized. So instead of arresting the Jewish Christians, Saul became one of them. He began his career as a preacher of the good news in the synagogues of Damascus. After traveling to Arabia and then back to Damascus, Saul returned to Jerusalem, likely about the year 36 C.E.— Ac 9:1-6, 19-22; Ga 1:16, 17 . A. Damascus 1. Road to Jerusalem 2. Street called Straight 3. Agora 4. Temple of Jupiter 5. Theater 6. Musical Performance Theater (?) B. Jerusalem Roman Citizenship Shown here is one of two sections from a bronze document issued in 79 C.E. This document granted Roman citizenship to a sailor who was soon to retire, his wife, and his son. The two sections were bound together and sealed. Some people acquired citizenship later in life, but others became Roman citizens at birth. (See study note on Ac 22:28 .) In either case, citizenship documents were highly valued, since a person might have to prove his citizenship in order to benefit from its privileges. However, Paul wrote of a far more valuable citizenship, the kind that “exists in the heavens.”​— Php 3:20 . The Sanhedrin Seventy-one members constituted the Jewish high court called the Great Sanhedrin. It was located in Jerusalem. (See Glossary, “ Sanhedrin .”) According to the Mishnah , the seating was arranged in a semicircle three rows deep, and two scribes were present to record the court’s rulings. Some of the architectural features shown here are based on a structure discovered in Jerusalem that is considered by some to be the Council Chamber from the first century.​—See Appendix B12 , map “Jerusalem and Surrounding Area.” 1. High priest 2. Members of the Sanhedrin 3. A defendant 4. Clerks Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Acts 22 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS