Acts of Apostles 28:1-31 28 After we made it to safety, we learned that the island was called Malta. + 2 And the foreign-speaking people showed us extraordinary kindness. They kindled a fire and received all of us kindly because of the rain that was falling and because of the cold. + 3 But when Paul collected a bundle of sticks and laid it on the fire, a viper came out because of the heat and fastened itself on his hand. 4 When the foreign-speaking people caught sight of the venomous creature hanging from his hand, they began saying to one another: “Surely this man is a murderer, and although he made it to safety from the sea, Justice did not permit him to keep on living.” 5 However, he shook the creature off into the fire and suffered no harm. 6 But they were expecting him to swell up or suddenly to drop dead. After they waited for a long time and saw that nothing bad happened to him, they changed their mind and began saying he was a god. + 7 Now in the neighborhood of that place were lands belonging to the principal man of the island, whose name was Pubʹli·us, and he welcomed us and entertained us hospitably for three days. 8 It so happened that the father of Pubʹli·us was lying in bed sick with fever and dysentery, and Paul went in to him and prayed, laid his hands on him, and healed him. + 9 After this occurred, the rest of the people on the island who were sick also began to come to him and be cured. + 10 They also honored us with many gifts, and when we were setting sail, they loaded us up with whatever we needed. 11 Three months later we set sail in a ship with the figurehead “Sons of Zeus.” The ship was from Alexandria and had wintered in the island. 12 Putting into port at Syracuse, we remained there for three days; 13 from there we went along and arrived at Rheʹgi·um. A day later a south wind sprang up and we made it into Pu·teʹo·li on the second day. 14 Here we found brothers and were urged to remain with them for seven days, and so we went toward Rome. 15 From there the brothers, when they heard the news about us, came as far as the Marketplace of Apʹpi·us and Three Taverns to meet us. On catching sight of them, Paul thanked God and took courage. + 16 When finally we entered Rome, Paul was permitted to stay by himself with the soldier guarding him. 17 However, three days later he called together the principal men of the Jews. When they had assembled, he said to them: “Men, brothers, although I had done nothing contrary to the people or the customs of our forefathers, + I was handed over as a prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans. + 18 And after making an examination, + they wanted to release me, for there were no grounds for putting me to death. + 19 But when the Jews objected, I was compelled to appeal to Caesar, + but not because I had any accusation to make against my nation. 20 So for this reason I asked to see and speak to you, for it is because of the hope of Israel that I have this chain around me.” + 21 They said to him: “We have not received letters about you from Ju·deʹa, nor have any of the brothers who came from there reported or spoken anything bad about you. 22 But we think it proper to hear from you what your thoughts are, for truly as regards this sect, + we know that it is spoken against everywhere.” + 23 They now arranged for a day to meet with him, and they came in even greater numbers to him in his lodging place. And from morning to evening, he explained the matter to them by bearing thorough witness concerning the Kingdom of God, to persuade them about Jesus + from both the Law of Moses + and the Prophets. + 24 Some began to believe the things he said; others would not believe. 25 So because they disagreed with one another, they began to leave, and Paul made this one comment: “The holy spirit aptly spoke through Isaiah the prophet to your forefathers, 26 saying, ‘Go to this people and say: “You will indeed hear but by no means understand, and you will indeed look but by no means see. + 27 For the heart of this people has grown unreceptive, * and with their ears they have heard without response, and they have shut their eyes, so that they might never see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their heart and turn back and I heal them.”’ + 28 So let it be known to you that this salvation from God has been sent out to the nations; + they will certainly listen to it.” + 29 —— 30 So he remained there for an entire two years in his own rented house, + and he would kindly receive all those who came to him, 31 preaching the Kingdom of God + to them and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with the greatest freeness of speech, + without hindrance. Footnotes ^ Lit., “was thickened (fattened).” Study Notes Malta: The Greek text uses the term Me·liʹte, which for centuries has been identified with the modern-day island of Malta. The ship on which Paul traveled was forced southward by strong winds, from Cnidus on the SW tip of Asia Minor to below Crete. ( Ac 27:7, 12, 13, 21 ) At Ac 27:27 , the record says that the ship was “being tossed about on the Sea of Adria,” which in Paul’s day applied to an area larger than the present-day Adriatic Sea. It included the Ionian Sea and waters E of Sicily and W of Crete, thus encompassing the sea near modern-day Malta. (See study note on Ac 27:27 .) In view of the prevailing winds of the storm called Euroaquilo ( Ac 27:14 ), it is likely that the ship was driven W and shipwrecked on the island of Malta, S of Sicily. Over the years, some scholars have suggested other islands as the Biblical Me·liʹte. One theory singled out an island near Corfu, off the western coast of Greece. Another suggestion is based on the Greek word Me·liʹte and points to Melite Illyrica, now known as Mljet, located off the coast of Croatia in the present-day Adriatic Sea. However, in view of the Bible’s description of the route, it is unlikely that the ship turned and sailed as far northward as Corfu or Mljet.​—See App. B13 . the foreign-speaking people: Or “the local inhabitants.” Some older Bible translations render the Greek word barʹba·ros used here as “Barbarians.” The repetition of “bar bar” in this Greek word conveyed the idea of stammering, babble, or unintelligible speech, so the Greeks originally used the term to refer to a foreigner who spoke a different language. At that time, the term did not denote lack of civilization, refinement, or good manners; nor did it convey contempt. The word barʹba·ros simply distinguished non-Greeks from Greeks. Some Jewish writers, including Josephus , recognized themselves as being designated by the term. ( Jewish Antiquities, XIV, 187 [x, 1]; Against Apion, I, 58 [11]) In fact, Romans called themselves barbarians until they adopted Greek culture. So the term was applied here to the inhabitants of Malta, who apparently spoke their native, unrelated language, likely Punic.​—See study note on Ro 1:14 . kindness: Or “human kindness.” The Greek word phi·lan·thro·piʹa literally means “affection (love) for mankind.” Such kindness could include the idea of having genuine interest in others and showing hospitality in caring for human needs and comforts. As shown here, people may display this godly quality even before they come to know Jehovah. A similar example is recorded at Ac 27:3 , where the related word phi·lan·throʹpos is used to describe the way that the army officer Julius treated Paul. At Tit 3:4 , the Greek word phi·lan·thro·piʹa is used to describe Jehovah’s feelings and is rendered “love for mankind.” a viper: In modern times, vipers are not found on the island of Malta. But as this account shows, the first-century inhabitants knew of these snakes. Over the centuries, environmental changes or the increase in human population may have eradicated this species from Malta. Justice: The Greek term for “Justice” here is diʹke. It may refer to a goddess who personifies avenging justice or to the concept of justice. In Greek mythology, Dike was the name of the goddess of justice. It was thought that she had oversight of human affairs and reported undisclosed injustices to Zeus so that the guilty would be punished. The inhabitants of Malta may have thought that, although he had survived the shipwreck, Paul was now overtaken by some sort of divine justice and punished by means of a snake. Sons of Zeus: According to Greek and Roman mythology, the “Sons of Zeus” (Greek, Di·oʹskou·roi ) were Castor and Pollux, twin sons of the god Zeus (Jupiter) and the Spartan Queen Leda. Among other things, they were regarded as the protectors of mariners, able to save sailors imperiled at sea. This detail regarding the ship’s figurehead is another testimony that the account was written by an eyewitness. Syracuse: A city with a fine harbor, located on the SE coast of the island of Sicily, today called Siracusa. According to Greek historian Thucydides, it was founded by the Corinthians in 734 B.C.E. Syracuse was the birthplace of some well-known figures of ancient times. For example, the mathematician Archimedes was born there. In 212 B.C.E., the Romans conquered Syracuse.​—See App. B13 . Puteoli: Now called Pozzuoli, this chief port SE of Rome was located about 10 km (6 mi) WSW of Naples. Extensive ruins of an ancient breakwater, or mole, are still visible. Josephus calls the site by its older name, Dicaearchia, and says that a Jewish colony was located there. ( Jewish Antiquities, XVII, 328, xii, 1) Paul, on his way to stand before Caesar in Rome, arrived at Puteoli about the year 59 C.E. The ship arrived from Rhegium (now called Reggio di Calabria), a port city at the southern tip of Italy across from Sicily, some 320 km (200 mi) to the SSE of Puteoli. Christian brothers in Puteoli entreated Paul and those accompanying him to spend a week with them. ( Ac 28:14 ) This indicates that, although he was a prisoner, Paul enjoyed some freedom.​—See App. B13 . so we went toward Rome: It would have taken up to a week to make the journey from Puteoli to Rome, which was 245 km (152 mi) away. Paul and his companions likely went from Puteoli to Capua and from there traveled 212 km (132 mi) to Rome on the Appian Way ( Latin , Via Appia ). The Appian Way was named after Appius Claudius Caecus, the Roman statesman who began building it in 312 B.C.E. It eventually linked Rome with the port of Brundisium (modern-day Brindisi), a gateway to the E. Much of the road was paved with large blocks of volcanic rock. The road varied greatly in width​—some portions were less than 3 m (10 ft) wide and other portions were more than 6 m (20 ft) wide. The general criterion was that two vehicles traveling in opposite directions could pass at the same time without hindering each other. At certain points, the Mediterranean Sea was visible. The road crossed the Pontine Marshes, a swampy area that caused one Roman writer to complain about the mosquitoes and foul smell. A canal was built along the road, so when the road was flooded, travelers used canal boats to travel through the area. Located just N of those marshes were the Marketplace of Appius, about 65 km (40 mi) from Rome, and Three Taverns, a rest stop some 50 km (30 mi) from the city. the Marketplace of Appius: Or “Forum of Appius.” Latin , Appii Forum. A marketplace about 65 km (40 mi) SE of Rome. It was a well-known station on the famous Roman highway Via Appia, running from Rome to Brundisium (now Brindisi) by way of Capua. Both the road and the marketplace draw their names from the founder, Appius Claudius Caecus, of the fourth century B.C.E. As the usual point at which travelers halted at the close of the first day’s journey out of Rome, this post station became a busy trading center and market town. Adding to its importance was its location on a canal that ran alongside the road, traversing the Pontine Marshes. Travelers reportedly were conveyed over this canal by night in barges pulled by mules. The Roman poet Horace describes the discomforts of the journey, complaining of the frogs and mosquitoes and depicting the Marketplace of Appius as “crammed with boatmen and stingy tavern-keepers.” ( Satires, I, V, 1-6) Despite all the discomforts, however, the delegation from Rome happily waited for Paul and his companions in order to escort them safely along the final leg of their journey. Today the site of the Foro Appio, or Forum of Appius, is marked by the small village of Borgo Faiti, located on the Appian Way.​—See App. B13 . Three Taverns: Or “Tres Tabernae.” Latin , Tres Tabernas. This place, which is also mentioned in other ancient writings, was situated on the Appian Way. The site is some 50 km (31 mi) SE of Rome, about 15 km (9.5 mi) from the Marketplace of Appius. Today, a few Roman ruins remain at this site.​—See App. B13 . Caesar: See study note on Ac 26:32 . this sect: See study note on Ac 24:5 . by bearing thorough witness concerning the Kingdom of God: With the exception of the book of John, Acts contains the Greek words rendered “witness” ( marʹtys ), “to bear witness” ( mar·ty·reʹo ), “to bear thorough witness” ( di·a·mar·tyʹro·mai ), and related words more times than any other Bible book. (See study notes on Joh 1:7; Ac 1:8 .) The idea of being a witness and bearing thorough witness about God’s purposes, including his Kingdom and Jesus’ vital role, is the theme that runs through the book of Acts.​— Ac 2:32, 40; 3:15; 4:33; 5:32; 8:25; 10:39; 13:31; 18:5; 20:21, 24; 22:20; 23:11; 26:16 . this salvation from God: Or “this, the means by which God saves.” The Greek word so·teʹri·on may refer not only to salvation but also to the means by which salvation or deliverance is brought about. ( Lu 2:30; 3:6 ; ftns.) By extension, it may include the message about how God will save mankind. Some later Greek manuscripts and some ancient translations into other languages add: “And when he had said this, the Jews went away, having a great deal of disputing among themselves.” However, these words do not appear in the earliest and most reliable manuscripts and are apparently not part of the original text of Acts.​—See App. A3 . he remained there for an entire two years: During this two-year period, Paul wrote his letter to the Ephesians ( Eph 4:1; 6:20 ), to the Philippians ( Php 1:7, 12-14 ), to the Colossians ( Col 4:18 ), to Philemon ( Phm 9 ), and apparently also to the Hebrews. His house arrest seems to have ended in about the year 61 C.E. when he apparently was tried​—perhaps before Emperor Nero or one of his representatives​—and pronounced innocent. After his release, Paul characteristically remained active. It could have been during this period that he made his planned trip to Spain. ( Ro 15:28 ) According to Clement of Rome, who wrote in about the year 95 C.E., Paul traveled “to the extreme limit of the W[est],” that is, of the Roman Empire. Paul’s three letters dated to the years after his release (1 and 2 Timothy and Titus) reveal that he probably visited Crete, Ephesus, Macedonia, Miletus, Nicopolis, and Troas. ( 1Ti 1:3; 2Ti 4:13, 20; Tit 1:5; 3:12 ) Some suggest that it was in Nicopolis, Greece, that Paul was again arrested and that he was back in prison in Rome in about the year 65 C.E. This time, it seems that Nero showed no mercy. A fire had devastated Rome the year before, and according to Roman historian Tacitus , Nero falsely blamed the Christians. Nero then initiated a brutal campaign of persecution against them. When Paul wrote his second and final letter to Timothy, he expected to be executed soon, so he asked Timothy and Mark to come quickly. During this time, Luke and Onesiphorus showed great courage and risked their lives to visit Paul and comfort him. ( 2Ti 1:16, 17; 4:6-9, 11 ) It was likely in about the year 65 C.E. that Paul was executed. In both life and death, Paul was an outstanding witness to “all the things Jesus started to do and to teach.”​— Ac 1:1 . preaching: The Greek word basically means “to make proclamation as a public messenger.” It stresses the manner of the proclamation: usually an open, public declaration rather than a sermon to a group. The theme of this preaching was the Kingdom of God. In the book of Acts, the expression “the Kingdom of God” occurs six times. The first occurrence is at Ac 1:3 , describing Jesus’ speaking about this Kingdom during the 40 days between his resurrection and his ascension. The Kingdom of God continued to be the theme that dominated the preaching of the apostles.​— Ac 8:12; 14:22; 19:8; 28:23 . with the greatest freeness of speech: Or “with all boldness (fearlessness).” The Greek word par·re·siʹa has also been rendered “outspokenness.” ( Ac 4:13 ) This noun and the related verb par·re·si·aʹzo·mai, often rendered “speak boldly [with boldness],” occur several times in the book of Acts. Boldness was, from the beginning of Luke’s account to the end, an identifying mark of the preaching done by the early Christians.​— Ac 4:29, 31; 9:27, 28; 13:46; 14:3; 18:26; 19:8; 26:26 . without hindrance: Or “freely.” The book of Acts ends on this positive note. Although under house arrest, Paul continued to preach and teach openly. Nothing could stop the spread of the Kingdom message in Rome. This is an appropriate finish to the book of Acts. It describes how the holy spirit empowered first-century Christians to begin the greatest preaching campaign in history, spreading the good news of God’s Kingdom “to the most distant part of the earth.”​— Ac 1:8 . Media Construction of a Roman Road The extensive Roman road system helped early Christians to spread the good news throughout the empire. The apostle Paul no doubt traveled many miles on these roads. ( Col 1:23 ) The diagram shown here illustrates the typical construction of a stone-paved Roman road. First, the path was marked. Next, builders dug a trench for the road and filled the trench with layers of road base made of stones, cement, and sand. The workers paved the road with large stone slabs and installed curb stones that helped keep the paving in place. The materials used and the camber of the road allowed water to drain from its surface. Outlets placed at intervals along the curbs let water escape into ditches that ran beside the road. The builders did such excellent work that some of their roads are still in existence today. Most roads in the Roman Empire, however, were not this sophisticated. The most common types were made simply of packed gravel. The City of Rome Rome, the capital city of the Roman Empire, was located on the Tiber River and was built on an area that has seven hills. As the empire flourished, the city expanded. By the middle of the first century C.E., Rome may have had a population of one million people, including a sizable Jewish community. The first Christians in Rome were likely Jews and proselytes who had been in Jerusalem at Pentecost 33 C.E. and had heard the apostle Peter and the other disciples preach. These new disciples would have brought the good news with them when they returned to Rome. ( Ac 2:10 ) In his letter to the Romans, which was written about 56 C.E., the apostle Paul said that the faith of those disciples in Rome was “talked about throughout the whole world.” ( Ro 1:7, 8 ) This video shows an artist’s rendering of some key features of Rome as they may have looked in Paul’s day. 1. Via Appia 2. Circus Maximus 3. Palatine Hill and Caesar’s Palace 4. Temple of Caesar 5. Theaters 6. Pantheon 7. Tiber River The Appian Way This photograph shows part of the Appian Way, or Via Appia, that can still be found in Italy. Although the road is not mentioned directly in the Bible, it was likely the highway that Paul used on his trek to Rome. The earliest portion of this road was built in 312 B.C.E. Construction continued, however, and by about 244 B.C.E., the Appian Way stretched from Rome to Brundisium. (See map.) Brothers from Rome traveled southward to Three Taverns and the Marketplace of Appius, both located along the Appian Way, to meet Paul. ( Ac 28:15 ) The Marketplace of Appius was about 65 km (40 mi) from Rome. Three Taverns was about 50 km (30 mi) from Rome. 1. Rome 2. Three Taverns 3. Marketplace of Appius 4. Appian Way 5. Brundisium (now called Brindisi) The Praetorian Guard From about 59 to 61 C.E., while waiting to appear before Caesar, the apostle Paul spent two years under house arrest in Rome. There he was guarded by Roman soldiers who probably belonged to an elite military force called the Praetorian Guard. ( Ac 28:16 ) Even though there were thousands of Praetorian soldiers, Paul told the Philippian congregation that his prison bonds had become known “among all the Praetorian Guard.” ( Php 1:13 ) Watch this video to learn more about the history and purpose of the Praetorian Guard. Paul’s Prison Bonds While He Was Under House Arrest During his first imprisonment in Rome, the apostle Paul was permitted to live under guard in a rented house. ( Ac 28:16, 30 ) Roman guards typically restrained prisoners with chains. The prisoner’s right wrist was usually chained to the guard’s left wrist. This kept the guard’s right hand free. Paul referred to his chains, bonds, and imprisonment in most of the inspired letters that he wrote during his house arrest in Rome.​— Eph 3:1; 4:1; 6:20; Php 1:7, 13, 14, 17; Col 4:3, 18; Phm 1, 9, 10, 13 . Caesar Nero This gold coin, minted about 56-57 C.E., shows a bust of Nero, who ruled the Roman Empire from 54 to 68 C.E. Nero was the Caesar to whom Paul appealed after his unjust arrest in Jerusalem and subsequent incarceration in Caesarea from about 56 to about 58 C.E. It appears that after Paul was first imprisoned in Rome, about 59 C.E., he was pronounced innocent and released about 61 C.E. However, in 64 C.E. a fire destroyed a quarter of the city of Rome, and some blamed Nero for the disaster. To deflect suspicion, Nero accused the Christians, prompting a wave of violent persecution by the government. It is likely that about this time (65 C.E.), Paul was imprisoned in Rome for the second time and was executed thereafter. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Acts 28 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS