DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36 Numbers 18:1-32 PLAY OUTLINE OF CONTENTS Duties of priests and Levites ( 1-7 ) Priestly allowances ( 8-19 ) Covenant of salt ( 19 ) Levites to receive and to give a tenth ( 20-32 ) 18 Jehovah then said to Aaron: “You and your sons and your paternal house with you will be answerable for any error against the sanctuary, + and you and your sons with you will be answerable for any error against your priesthood. + 2 Also bring near your brothers of the tribe of Leʹvi, your ancestral tribe, so that they may join you and minister to you + and your sons before the tent of the Testimony. + 3 They are to fulfill their responsibilities to you and to the entire tent. + However, they must not come near the utensils of the holy place and the altar, so that neither they nor you may die. + 4 They will join you and carry out their responsibilities regarding the tent of meeting and all the service of the tent, and no unauthorized person * may come near to you. + 5 You must carry out your responsibility toward the holy place + and the altar, + so that no further indignation + may come against the people of Israel. 6 I myself have taken your brothers, the Levites, from among the Israelites as a gift for you. + They are given to Jehovah to care for the service of the tent of meeting. + 7 You and your sons are responsible for your priestly duties pertaining to the altar and what is inside the curtain, + and you are to render this service. + I have given the service of the priesthood as a gift to you, and any unauthorized person * who approaches should be put to death.” + 8 Jehovah spoke further to Aaron: “I myself put you in charge of the contributions made to me. + I have given to you and to your sons a portion of all the holy things contributed by the Israelites as a permanent allowance. + 9 This will be yours out of the most holy offerings made by fire: every offering they make, including their grain offerings + and their sin offerings + and their guilt offerings + that they bring to me. It is something most holy for you and for your sons. 10 In a most holy place you should eat it. + Every male may eat it. It will be something holy to you. + 11 This also belongs to you: the gifts they contribute + together with all the wave offerings + of the Israelites. I have given them to you and your sons and your daughters with you as a permanent allowance. + Everyone clean in your house may eat it. + 12 “All the best of the oil and all the best of the new wine and the grain, their firstfruits, + which they give to Jehovah, I give them to you. + 13 The first ripe fruits of everything from their land, which they will bring to Jehovah, will become yours. + Everyone clean in your house may eat it. 14 “Every devoted thing * in Israel should become yours. + 15 “Every firstborn of all living things, * + which they will present to Jehovah, whether man or animal, should become yours. However, you should without fail redeem the firstborn of mankind, + and the firstborn of the unclean animals you should redeem. + 16 You should redeem it with the redemption price when it is a month old and up, by the estimated value of five silver shekels, * + according to the standard shekel of the holy place. * It is 20 geʹrahs. * 17 Only the firstborn bull or firstborn male lamb or firstborn goat you should not redeem. + They are something holy. You should sprinkle their blood on the altar, + and their fat you should make smoke as an offering made by fire for a pleasing * aroma to Jehovah. + 18 And their flesh should become yours. Like the breast of the wave offering and like the right leg, it should become yours. + 19 All the holy contributions that the Israelites will contribute to Jehovah, + I have given to you and your sons and your daughters with you as a permanent allowance. + It is a lasting covenant of salt * before Jehovah for you and your offspring with you.” 20 Jehovah went on to say to Aaron: “In their land you will not have an inheritance, and no portion of land among them will become yours. + I am your portion and your inheritance in the midst of the Israelites. + 21 “Now see that I have given to the sons of Leʹvi every tenth part + in Israel as an inheritance in return for the service they are carrying out, the service of the tent of meeting. 22 No longer may the people of Israel approach the tent of meeting, or else they will incur sin and die. 23 The Levites themselves are to carry out the service of the tent of meeting, and they are the ones who will answer for their error. + It is a lasting statute during all your generations that they should not take possession of an inheritance among the Israelites. + 24 For I have given to the Levites as an inheritance the tenth part contributed by the people of Israel, which they will contribute to Jehovah. That is why I have said to them, ‘In the midst of the Israelites, they should not take possession of an inheritance.’” + 25 Then Jehovah said to Moses: 26 “You should tell the Levites, ‘You will receive from the Israelites the tenth part that I have given to you from them for your inheritance, + and you should contribute from it a tenth part of the tenth part as a contribution to Jehovah. + 27 And it will be considered your contribution, as though it were the grain of the threshing floor + or the full production of the winepress or oil press. 28 In this way you will also give a contribution to Jehovah from all the tenth parts that you receive from the Israelites, and from them you are to give the contribution for Jehovah to Aaron the priest. 29 You will make every sort of contribution to Jehovah from the very best of all the gifts given to you + as something holy.’ 30 “And you must say to them, ‘When you contribute the best of them, then it will be considered for the Levites as the produce of the threshing floor and as the produce of the winepress or oil press. 31 You and your household may eat it in any place, because it is your wages in return for your service at the tent of meeting. + 32 You will not incur sin in this as long as you contribute the best from them, and you must not profane the holy things of the Israelites, or you will die.’” + Footnotes ^ Lit., “stranger,” that is, a man not of Aaron’s family. ^ Lit., “stranger,” that is, a man not of Aaron’s family. ^ That is, everything made sacred to God by being irrevocably and irredeemably devoted to God. ^ Lit., “of all flesh.” ^ Or “the holy shekel.” ^ A gerah equaled 0.57 g (0.01835 oz t). See App. B14 . ^ A shekel equaled 11.4 g (0.367 oz t). See App. B14 . ^ Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.” ^ That is, a permanent and unchanging covenant. Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (2013 REVISION) Numbers 18 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001061103/univ/art/1001061103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwt p. 40 Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) PDF EPUB JWPUB Screen Reader (RTF) Notetaker (BRL) DAISY Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar Numbers OUTLINE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29 30 31 32 33 34 35 36