Zechariah 5:1-11 5 Again I looked up, and I saw a flying scroll. 2 He asked me: “What do you see?” I replied: “I see a flying scroll, which is 20 cubits * long and 10 cubits wide.” 3 Then he said to me: “This is the curse that is going out over the face of all the earth, because everyone who steals, + as written on its one side, has gone unpunished; and everyone who makes a sworn oath, + as written on its other side, has gone unpunished. 4 ‘I have sent it out,’ declares Jehovah of armies, ‘and it will enter into the house of the thief and into the house of the one who makes a false oath in my name; and it will remain inside that house and consume it and its timbers and its stones.’” 5 Then the angel who was speaking with me came forward and said to me: “Look up, please, and see what is going out.” 6 So I asked: “What is it?” He replied: “This is the eʹphah container * that is going out.” He continued: “This is their appearance in all the earth.” 7 And I saw that the round lid of lead was lifted up, and there was a woman sitting inside the container. 8 So he said: “This is Wickedness.” Then he threw her back into the eʹphah container, after which he thrust the lead weight over its mouth. 9 Then I looked up and saw two women coming forward, and they were soaring in the wind. They had wings like the wings of a stork. And they lifted up the container between the earth and heaven. 10 So I asked the angel who was speaking with me: “Where are they taking the eʹphah container?” 11 He replied: “To the land of Shiʹnar * + to build her a house; and when it is prepared, she will be deposited there in her proper place.” Footnotes ^ A cubit equaled 44.5 cm (17.5 in.). See App. B14 . ^ Lit., “the ephah,” here referring to a container or basket used to measure an ephah. An ephah equaled 22 L (20 dry qt). See App. B14 . ^ That is, Babylonia. Study Notes Media Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (STUDY EDITION) Zechariah 5 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001070103/univ/art/1001070103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwtsty Copyrights for this publication Copyright © 2025 Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. TERMS OF USE | PRIVACY POLICY | PRIVACY SETTINGS