DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 Leviticus 23:1-44 PLAY OUTLINE OF CONTENTS Holy days and festivals ( 1-44 ) Sabbath ( 3 ) Passover ( 4, 5 ) Festival of Unleavened Bread ( 6-8 ) Offering of firstfruits ( 9-14 ) Festival of Weeks ( 15-21 ) Proper harvesting ( 22 ) Festival of Trumpet Blast ( 23-25 ) Day of Atonement ( 26-32 ) Festival of Booths ( 33-43 ) 23 Jehovah continued speaking to Moses, saying: 2 “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘The seasonal festivals + of Jehovah that you should proclaim + are holy conventions. These are my seasonal festivals: 3 “‘Six days work may be done, but on the seventh day is a sabbath of complete rest, + a holy convention. You may not do any sort of work. It is to be a sabbath to Jehovah wherever you dwell. + 4 “‘These are the seasonal festivals of Jehovah, holy conventions that you should proclaim at the times appointed for them: 5 In the first month, on the 14th day of the month, + at twilight * is the Passover + to Jehovah. 6 “‘On the 15th day of this month is the Festival of Unleavened Bread to Jehovah. + Seven days you should eat unleavened bread. + 7 On the first day, you will observe a holy convention. + You should not do any hard work. 8 But you are to present an offering made by fire to Jehovah for seven days. There will be a holy convention on the seventh day. You should not do any hard work.’” 9 Jehovah continued to speak to Moses, saying: 10 “Speak to the Israelites and tell them, ‘When you eventually come into the land that I am giving you and you have reaped its harvest, you must bring a sheaf of the firstfruits + of your harvest to the priest. + 11 And he will wave the sheaf back and forth before Jehovah to gain approval for you. The priest should wave it on the day after the Sabbath. 12 On the day you have the sheaf waved, you must offer a sound young ram in its first year, as a burnt offering to Jehovah. 13 Its grain offering will be two tenths of an eʹphah * of fine flour mixed with oil, as an offering made by fire to Jehovah, a pleasing * aroma. Its drink offering will be a fourth of a hin * of wine. 14 You must not eat any bread, roasted grain, or new grain until this day, until you bring the offering of your God. It is a lasting statute for all your generations wherever you dwell. 15 “‘You are to count seven sabbaths from the day after the Sabbath, from the day that you bring the sheaf of the wave offering. + They should be complete weeks. 16 You will count off 50 days + until the day after the seventh Sabbath, and then you should present a new grain offering to Jehovah. + 17 You should bring from your dwelling places two loaves as a wave offering. These should be made of two tenths of an eʹphah * of fine flour. They should be baked with leaven, + as first ripe fruits to Jehovah. + 18 And you should present along with the loaves seven sound male lambs, each a year old, and one young bull and two rams. + They will serve as a burnt offering to Jehovah along with the corresponding grain offering and drink offerings, as an offering made by fire, of a pleasing * aroma to Jehovah. 19 And you must offer one young goat as a sin offering + and two male lambs, each a year old, as a communion sacrifice. + 20 The priest will wave them back and forth along with the loaves of the first ripe fruits, as a wave offering before Jehovah, together with the two male lambs. They should serve as something holy to Jehovah for the priest. + 21 On this day you will make a proclamation + for a holy convention for yourselves. You may not do any hard work. It is a lasting statute in all your dwelling places for all your generations. 22 “‘When you reap the harvest of your land, you must not reap the edge of your field completely and you should not pick up what is left from your harvest. + You should leave it for the poor * + and for the foreign resident. + I am Jehovah your God.’” 23 Jehovah went on speaking to Moses, saying: 24 “Tell the Israelites, ‘In the seventh month, on the first of the month, you should observe a complete rest, a memorial signaled by a trumpet blast, + a holy convention. 25 You may not do any hard work, and you will present an offering made by fire to Jehovah.’” 26 Jehovah spoke further to Moses, saying: 27 “However, on the tenth of this seventh month is the Day of Atonement. + You should observe a holy convention, and you must afflict yourselves * + and present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. 28 You are not to do any sort of work on this particular day because it is a day of atonement to make atonement + for you before Jehovah your God. 29 Anyone * who will not afflict himself * on this day will be cut off * from his people. + 30 And I will destroy from among his people every person * who does any sort of work on this day. 31 You must not do any sort of work. It is a lasting statute for all your generations wherever you dwell. 32 It is a sabbath of complete rest for you, and you will afflict yourselves * + on the ninth of the month in the evening. You should observe your sabbath from evening to evening.” 33 Jehovah continued speaking to Moses, saying: 34 “Tell the Israelites, ‘On the 15th day of this seventh month is the Festival of Booths * for seven days to Jehovah. + 35 There is to be a holy convention on the first day, and you should not do any hard work. 36 Seven days you must present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. On the eighth day, you should observe a holy convention, + and you should present an offering made by fire to Jehovah. It is a solemn assembly. You may not do any hard work. 37 “‘These are the seasonal festivals + of Jehovah that you should proclaim as holy conventions + for presenting an offering made by fire to Jehovah: the burnt offering + and the grain offering + of the sacrifice and the drink offerings + according to the daily schedule. 38 These are in addition to what is offered on Jehovah’s sabbaths, + and your gifts, + your vow offerings, + and your voluntary offerings, + which you should give to Jehovah. 39 However, on the 15th day of the seventh month, when you have gathered the produce of the land, you should celebrate the festival of Jehovah for seven days. + On the first day is a complete rest and on the eighth day is a complete rest. + 40 On the first day, you will take the fruit of majestic trees, the fronds of palm trees, + the branches of leafy trees and poplars of the valley, * and you will rejoice + before Jehovah your God for seven days. + 41 You will celebrate it as a festival to Jehovah for seven days in the year. + As a lasting statute during all your generations, you should celebrate it in the seventh month. 42 You should dwell in the booths for seven days. + All the natives in Israel should dwell in the booths, 43 so that your future generations may know + that it was in the booths that I made the Israelites dwell when I was bringing them out of the land of Egypt. + I am Jehovah your God.’” 44 So Moses spoke of the seasonal festivals of Jehovah to the Israelites. Footnotes ^ Lit., “between the two evenings.” ^ Two tenths of an ephah equaled 4.4 L (4 dry qt). See App. B14 . ^ Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.” ^ A hin equaled 3.67 L (7.75 pt). See App. B14 . ^ Two tenths of an ephah equaled 4.4 L (4 dry qt). See App. B14 . ^ Or “appeasing; soothing.” Lit., “restful.” ^ Or “afflicted.” ^ Or “your souls.” To “afflict oneself” is generally understood to mean various forms of self-denial, including fasting. ^ Or “Any soul.” ^ Or possibly, “not fast.” ^ Or “put to death.” ^ Or “soul.” ^ Or “your souls.” ^ Or “Temporary Shelters.” ^ Or “wadi.” Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (2013 REVISION) Leviticus 23 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1001061103/univ/art/1001061103_univ_sqr_xl.jpg nwt p. 40 Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) PDF EPUB JWPUB Screen Reader (RTF) Notetaker (BRL) DAISY Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (2013 Revision) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next An Introduction to God’s Word Show more QUESTION 1 Who Is God? QUESTION 2 How Can You Learn About God? QUESTION 3 Who Wrote the Bible? QUESTION 4 Is the Bible Scientifically Accurate? QUESTION 5 What Is the Bible’s Message? QUESTION 6 What Did the Bible Foretell About the Messiah? QUESTION 7 What Does the Bible Foretell About Our Day? QUESTION 8 Is God to Blame for Human Suffering? QUESTION 9 Why Do Humans Suffer? QUESTION 10 What Does the Bible Promise for the Future? QUESTION 11 What Happens When Someone Dies? QUESTION 12 What Hope Can We Have for the Dead? QUESTION 13 What Does the Bible Say About Work? QUESTION 14 How Can You Manage Your Assets? QUESTION 15 How Can You Find Happiness? QUESTION 16 How Can You Cope With Anxiety? QUESTION 17 How Can the Bible Help Your Family? QUESTION 18 How Can You Draw Close to God? QUESTION 19 What Is Contained in the Various Books of the Bible? QUESTION 20 How Can You Get the Most Out of Your Bible Reading? Foreword Books of the Bible Table of the Books of the Bible Abbreviations Used in Footnotes Bible Words Index Glossary of Bible Terms Appendix A Show more A1 Principles of Bible Translation A2 Features of This Revision A3 How the Bible Came to Us A4 The Divine Name in the Hebrew Scriptures A5 The Divine Name in the Christian Greek Scriptures A6-A Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 1) A6-B Chart: Prophets and Kings of Judah and of Israel (Part 2) A7-A Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Leading Up to Jesus’ Ministry A7-B Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—The Beginning of Jesus’ Ministry A7-C Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 1) A7-D Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Great Ministry in Galilee (Part 2) A7-E Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Ministry in Galilee (Part 3) and in Judea A7-F Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Later Ministry East of the Jordan A7-G Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 1) A7-H Main Events of Jesus’ Earthly Life—Jesus’ Final Ministry in Jerusalem (Part 2) Appendix B Show more B1 The Message of the Bible B2 Genesis and the Travels of the Patriarchs B3 The Exodus From Egypt B4 Conquest of the Promised Land B5 Tabernacle and High Priest B6 Settlement of the Promised Land B7 Kingdom of David and Solomon B8 Temple Built by Solomon B9 World Powers Foretold by Daniel B10 Israel During the Time of Jesus B11 Temple Mount in the First Century B12-A The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 1) B12-B The Final Week of Jesus’ Life on Earth (Part 2) B13 The Spread of Christianity B14-A Trade and Commerce B14-B Currency and Weight B15 Hebrew Calendar Leviticus OUTLINE OF CONTENTS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27