DISPLAY Bible Book Genesis Exodus Leviticus Numbers Deuteronomy Joshua Judges Ruth 1 Samuel 2 Samuel 1 Kings 2 Kings 1 Chronicles 2 Chronicles Ezra Nehemiah Esther Job Psalms Proverbs Ecclesiastes Song of Solomon Isaiah Jeremiah Lamentations Ezekiel Daniel Hosea Joel Amos Obadiah Jonah Micah Nahum Habakkuk Zephaniah Haggai Zechariah Malachi Matthew Mark Luke John Acts Romans 1 Corinthians 2 Corinthians Galatians Ephesians Philippians Colossians 1 Thessalonians 2 Thessalonians 1 Timothy 2 Timothy Titus Philemon Hebrews James 1 Peter 2 Peter 1 John 2 John 3 John Jude Revelation Chapter 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 2 Corinthians 9:1-15 PLAY 9 Now concerning the ministry + that is for the holy ones, it is superfluous for me to write YOU , 2 for I know YOUR readiness of mind of which I am boasting to the Mac·e·doʹni·ans about YOU , that A·chaʹia has stood ready now for a year, + and YOUR zeal has stirred up the majority of them. 3 But I am sending the brothers, that our boasting about YOU might not prove empty in this respect, but that YOU may really be ready, + just as I used to say YOU would be. 4 Otherwise, in some way, if Mac·e·doʹni·ans should come with me and find YOU not ready, we—not to say YOU —should be put to shame in this assurance of ours. 5 Therefore I thought it necessary to encourage the brothers to come to YOU in advance and to get ready in advance YOUR bountiful gift previously promised, + that thus this might be ready as a bountiful gift and not as something extorted. * + 6 But as to this, he that sows sparingly + will also reap sparingly; and he that sows bountifully + will also reap bountifully. 7 Let each one do just as he has resolved in his heart, not grudgingly + or under compulsion, for God loves a cheerful giver. + 8 God, moreover, is able to make all his undeserved kindness abound toward YOU , that, while YOU always have full self-sufficiency in everything, YOU may have plenty for every good work. + 9 (Just as it is written: “He has distributed widely, he has given to the poor ones, his righteousness * continues forever.” + 10 Now he that abundantly supplies seed to the sower and bread for eating + will supply and multiply the seed for YOU to sow and will increase the products of YOUR righteousness.) + 11 In everything YOU are being enriched for every sort of generosity, which produces through us an expression of thanks to God; + 12 because the ministry of this public service is not only to supply abundantly the wants of the holy ones + but also to be rich with many expressions of thanks to God. 13 Through the proof that this ministry gives, they glorify God because YOU are submissive to the good news about the Christ, + as YOU publicly declare YOU are, and because YOU are generous in YOUR contribution to them and to all; + 14 and with supplication for YOU they long for YOU because of the surpassing undeserved kindness + of God upon YOU . 15 Thanks be to God for his indescribable free gift. + Footnotes ^ Or, “something given with covetousness.” ^ Or, “beneficence.” Previous Next Print Share Share
            
   
   Books of the Bible NEW WORLD TRANSLATION OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES (1984 EDITION) 2 Corinthians 9 English Read the Bible Online https://cms-imgp.jw-cdn.org/img/p/1011208/univ/wpub/1011208_univ_sqr_xl.jpg Show Table of Contents Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next Books of the Bible DOWNLOAD OPTIONS New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) Text Publication download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) PDF EPUB JWPUB Audio Audio download options
                        
   
   New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures (1984 Edition) MP3 Previous TABLE OF CONTENTS Next Books of the Bible 2 Corinthians 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13